Title: 
Free Iphone Downloads

Word Count:
466

Summary:
If you own an Iphone, the chances are that your are going to be interested in getting some free downloads for it.


Keywords:
download free iphone software, get free iphone downloads


Article Body:
If you own an Iphone, the chances are that your are going to be interested in getting some free downloads for it. The Iphone is already outstripping the early successes of the Ipod, and looks like it may go on to become one of the most successful electronic devices we have yet seen. This article will show you how to  make the most of your Iphone.

Iphones are a tremendously versatile piece of kit. Not only is it a cellphone, but it will also allow you to listen to music, much like an Ipod would, and also watch movies and play games on the move-and if that wasn't enough, it can even access the internet. It really is quite an achievement. Like the Ipod before it, you are able to transfer all your existing CDs and DVDS to the Iphone, but perhaps the best part is that you can download media from the internet to use with your Iphone. If you know where to look these downloads can often be found at no cost at all!

Most people simply use the torrent sites or peer to peer sites as they are known, to obtain their free downloads. This seems like a great idea at first, and they have been very popular for a number of years now. Did you know that using sites like that is illegal though? It's recommended that you check the law in your area and your own rights before downloading anything at all.

If that wasn't enough to put you off for life, torrent sites can be very very dangerous for your computer. Many torrent sites are a popular place for hackers and identity thieves to hang out, so there's a good chance that your next download will contain a lot more than you bargain for. It's not unheard of for hackers to use torrent sites to enable them to get innocent web users to download their viruses and trojans etc. Scary stuff.

Thankfully, as technology progresses, there is now a wonderful alternative to the peer to peer and torrent sites. The way these new sites work is by asking you to pay a one off fee, and then allowing you access to their huge database. The downloads are usually unlimited, so once you are a member, you will be downloading there for the rest of your life. As well as that, you usually find that the servers etc are very fast, and these sites can offer tremendous value for money. Sites like these are definitely the way to go if you are looking for free Iphone downloads.

Downloading free stuff for your Iphone can be tricky, and can land you in jail or kill your computer if you aren't careful-hopefully this article will help you find out what way to go.


