Title: 
Free ISP

Word Count:
502

Summary:
Is There Such A Thing As Free ISP?

As a matter of fact, there really is such a thing as a free Internet Service Provider or free ISP, for short. Most Internet service providers offer service for a small monthly charge. Most people are surprised to learn that there are companies that offer free Internet service. This is much more than the free trials offered on the discs everyone receives in the mail. These ISPs actually offer free Internet service, and not for just a trial...


Keywords:
broadband, isp, uk broadband, broadband isp, wanadoo broadband, bt broadband, homecall broadband


Article Body:
Is There Such A Thing As Free ISP?

As a matter of fact, there really is such a thing as a free Internet Service Provider or free ISP, for short. Most Internet service providers offer service for a small monthly charge. Most people are surprised to learn that there are companies that offer free Internet service. This is much more than the free trials offered on the discs everyone receives in the mail. These ISPs actually offer free Internet service, and not for just a trial period.

You might wonder how it is that these ISPs can offer free service when everyone else is paying for it. The answer to that is really no surprise at all. It is advertising, the funding that is behind nearly every free product. For example, there are a variety of sites that offer free MP3 downloads. The catch is that these downloads arrive with a ton of pop-up advertisements, just like the free ISPs. These pop-ups can create a real problem on free Internet service because there are so many of them. They can even cause your computer to freeze up and generally make it extremely difficult to navigate the Internet.

Another concern with these free ISPs is that they may not offer the free Internet deal in your area. If there is no local dial-up number for you, it can turn into big charges on your telephone. Some of these free ISPs also put a limit on the number of hours you can spend on the Internet. Also, the features available with commercial ISPs are often lacking in the free ISPs. An ISP that charges for their service is always coming up with new and better features for their customers. Free ISPs do not make that kind of effort. The quality of the connection can also be a problem with free ISPs. You may find you have poor connections with constant interruptions.

Still, you may want to find an ISP that is a step up from the free ISPs. The answer may actually be with the free ISP company. Many of them offer a better package for paying customers. This is often at a lower cost than other commercial ISPs. Many companies offer free Internet service as an incentive to try out their service. What they are hoping is that customer will like their service more than a competitor and decide to upgrade to unlimited Internet access.

It is always a good idea to read and fully understand the terms and conditions of any ISP before you sign anything. This is especially true when you are making an agreement for free Internet access. Make sure that they are offering exactly what they say they are, and you are aware of any conditions. Double-check any time limits on your Internet access, and know the fees for going over your limit. Last of all, make sure you know ahead of time about any long distance charges or other charges that may actually apply for your free ISP.


