Title: 
Free Desktop Freebies – Get them now

Word Count:
468

Summary:
The Internet is hampered with free things and desktop freebies are no exception to it. Today one can find number of sites through which you can get free desktop freebies for your computer.


Keywords:
free desktop freebies,desktop freebies,free desktop screensavers,free desktop wallpapers,free desktop themes,free smiley


Article Body:
Are you looking for some free desktop freebies? 

The Internet is hampered with free things and desktop freebies are no exception to it. Today one can find number of sites through which you can get free desktop freebies for your computer. All these freebies are easily downloadable on your computer. A proper search can help you download freebies that are totally safe and virus free. All you need to do is relax and select the best of desktop freebies for your PC. 

Some of desktop freebies that can be downloaded free are:

a) Free Desktop Screensavers: Get a mixture of freebie screensavers that can be easily downloaded on your PC. You can find a list of screensavers including 3-D style screensavers, cartoons, sports, movies, fantasy, nature, cars, and the list goes on. All these screensavers can give a new realistic look to your computer. At the time of downloading any screensaver you will be notified about the time the screensaver will take to load. Find a site which is easy to navigate and ensures good quality screensavers.

b) Free Desktop Wallpapers: Today one can download different varieties of wallpapers for their computer. You can find a list of wallpapers including digital wallpaper, free terminator 3 wallpaper and freeloader wallpapers. You can also download digital wallpapers which include 3D and abstract wallpapers, animal’s wallpapers, people wallpapers, theme wallpapers, nature wallpapers and many more. Get digital car wallpapers in two screen resolution sizes including 1024x768 and 800x600. You can also download free cool wallpapers, which include images of celebrities, models, animations and so on. 

c) Free Desktop themes: Today one can find different varieties of desktop themes for your computer. You can download desktop themes like actors, actresses, models, TV shows, TV personalities and so on. 

d) Free Fun Buddy Icon: Desktop freebies also include fun buddy icons. You can choose from thousands of custom icons and use them in your AOL, Instant Messenger, Yahoo Messenger and MSN Messenger chat programs. Once you download fun buddy icons in your computer you will notice an addition to your Internet explorer toolbar. 

e) Free Smiley: Looking for some cool smiley to express your feelings while chatting. Today one can find number of sites that provide free smiley of different emotions and style. All you have to do is just choose from a wide list of smiley.  You can find animated smiley, cute smiley, fixed smiley, fixed non smiley, picture smiley, animated non smiley, board smiley, Unclassified funny smiley and lots more. 

f) Free Cursor: Are you bored using the same cursors installed in your computers. Get free cursors for your computer through different desktop freebies sites. You can download autumn cursors, Christmas cursors, 3D Cursors, Angels Cursors, Beach Cursors, Cars Cursors, Funny Cursors, Cute Cursors, Golf Cursors, Food Cursors and lots more.


