Title: 
Get Rid Of Spyware From Your Computer

Word Count:
609

Summary:
Beware of spywares! They invace adn destroyyour pc, your files and eventually your life. Get rid of them!


Keywords:
buy cheap laptop and notebook computers, tips on buying laptops, ink cartridges, computer rentals, choosing PDAs, care of your laptop batteries


Article Body:
The Internet has revolutionized the whole ambit of communications and has proved to be a boon to mankind. However, its privacy and security is being threatened with Spyware, which can intrude into the computer and cause great damage to the whole system. Most malicious Spywares can access the valuable personal data that might be stored in your computer and cause financial and personal losses. If you don’t protect your computer from spyware, it will be just like keeping your doors open to unwanted elements.
 
Your computer can get affected with Spyware or Adware very easily but this happens mostly through “pop up” ads, downloadable games, music and screensavers. Spyware is a term which covers a vast variety of illicit software that has the capability to intrude, intercept and take control of the operations of the computer that it invades without the approval of the owner or user of the computer. 

Spyware can help someone do the following illegal functions:
1)	Read your e-mails
2)	Access your e-mail list
3)	Watch which keystrokes you are typing
4)	Access your credit card information that might be stored in your computer
5)	Get to know your passwords listed in your computer
6)	Steal your social security number
7)	Track all the websites that you visit 

It is, therefore, essential for you to know whether your computer is infected with spyware or not and the following are the positive signs regarding the existence of spyware:
1)	If your computer starts running slower
2)	If some programs do not run correctly
3)	If you notice some programs that you were previously not aware of. These could have been installed by the spyware.

Perfect Solution for detecting and removing Spyware from your computer  

The perfect antidote to the menace of spyware is to download a spyware detection tool, which will run a spyware detector and scan your computer for signs of existence of spyware. Most anti-spyware companies offer free trials for scanning and finding out whether the spyware is present or not.  If the result is positive, you would have to use the full software to get rid of the spyware and safeguard your computer.

After using a reputable anti-spyware tool, if you still having problems then what’s the solution?

It is quite possible that even a good anti-spyware tool might not be able to obliterate unwanted malicious software from your computer. The reason could be that a single scan might not be enough and that you might need to operate a number of scans and you might even need to use a second program to completely erase all spyware and adware. It has been noticed that there is no anti-spyware that can attack all the threats posed by the spywares. Some anti-spyware programs can tackle certain threats and these are listed in the software. As such, it might be necessary to employ two or more anti-spyware tools to get rid of all unwanted software that might have heavily infested your computer.
 
Since most anti-spyware tools specify which spyware variants they can detect and remove, it is advisable to use such a devise at the vendor’s premises in order to see its effectiveness and the areas that it can work on. You will thus get familiar with the various anti-spyware tools and with their names and functions. However, it is important to remember that when you apply these tools to remove the spyware from your computer, you should disconnect the same from the Internet connection. 

Just as a virus can invade your body and cause various diseases and even death, spyware can also invade your computer and cause irreparable damage. Use the anti-spyware tools as soon as you notice any spyware signs.


