Title: 
Harmful Secrets Of Computer Monitors

Word Count:
648

Summary:
Incorrect setup of your computer monitor screen can harm your health. This article explains the basics of correct computer screen set up.


Keywords:
computer monitor,computer monitors,screen setup,computer accessories,screen adjustment,screen position,healthy computing


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Michael Madigan

If you use PCs, you are staring at that PC screen a lot. Therefore you need a correct screen setup as soon as possible, or your eyes, neck shoulders and the rest of your body will suffer.

The trend in computer screens is to replace  the box type computer monitor with a flat screen , saving weight space and power.

However all the following tips apply equally to both types.

Suitable positioning of your monitor screen will cut back on unwanted exertion, and bad positioning, plus other possible health problems like exhaustion, eyestrain and related disorders like itching and styes.

Eyestrain, neck and back pain can be considerably reduced by proper selection of the monitor (or flat screen). The screen should be positioned in proper relation to other components like the keyboard, desk, and chair.

While using the computer monitor, ensure the following:-

The screen is in front of you and at least 20 inches (45 centimetres) away.

The screen should not be more than 40 inches (100 centimetres) away.

Ideal computer screen size is between 15 to 20 inches, (about 37 to 50 centimetres) measured diagonally. If the screen is very small, you’ll find it difficult to read the characters. If the screen is very large, you may require too much space.

The ideal position is to have the screen directly in front of you.  But, if that is not possible, the maximum ’offcentering’ recommended is 35 degrees to the left or right of you. Thats approximately...not very much!

The top line of the computer monitor screen should be at or below your eye level. If necessary raise your chair a little, so that your line of sight is also raised. (However if you do this, make sure your feet still get get good support, and your thighs can move freely under the desk.)

Computer monitor should not be placed above or on top of other equipment like a CPU (central processing unit) or a surge protector. The screen would be then higher than your eyes. That might well increase strain on your eyes, neck, and back.

If your work is chiefly involved with printed matter, it is better to place the computer monitor a little to the side, with the documents on a stand just in front of you.  There should not be too much distance between the monitor and the printed matter.

The screen should be placed at right angles to windows, so avoiding irritating reflections.

The ideal screen position is to have it directly in front of you.  But, if that is not possible, the maximum ’offcentering’ recommended is 35 degrees to the left or right.

If your work is chiefly involved with printed matter, it is better to place the computer monitor a little to the side, with the documents on a stand just in front of you. There should not be too much distance between the screen and any printed matter you are working on.

Do not tilt computer monitors sharply either toward or away from yourself, as the objects on the screen may appear distorted making them hard to view. Also, if the monitor is tilted back, there are chances of the overhead lights creating glare on the monitor, and a tilted or propped monitor may become unstable and fall over. You can tilt the computer monitor screen slightly - somewhere between 10 to 20 degrees - so that it is perpendicular to your line of sight.  Always ensure that the angle and tilt of the screen can be adjusted without much effort.

For anything other than minor screen adjustment, it is is better to have the computer monitor sitting on a a riser/swivel stand, available from any good computer accessory store, on or offline. To avoid glare, make use of a glare screen, available again from any suitable source of computer accessories...

Get your screen setup right and you've taken a big step towards healthy computing in 2006 and beyond!


