Title: 
Home Computer Repair

Word Count:
929

Summary:
If you think home computer repair is hard or next to impossible then please read this article.


Keywords:
Home Computer Repair Basics, How To Fix Your Computer, In Home Computer Service


Article Body:
Hello, and welcome to Computer Repair at Home!


If you think home computer repair is hard or next to impossible then please read this article.
Ok, so you are almost certainly here reading this because you have, or believe you have a computer predicament, or maybe your home computer is just not performing normal. DO NOT do the flying experiment! Your computer cannot fly, and will by no means be able to fly, so do not test this theory out of your second story window! Simple home computer repair techniques I will explain to you will help; all while your bank account stays untouched(credit cards too)

So concerning this blog… I am going to be schooling you(not selling you) how to go from identifying that you have a home computer repair problem, all the way to fixing that same problem. The principle is to get your home computer functioning the way you want it to.

Along the journey you will learn I do own and control a home computer repair and services company, BUT in no way am I at this juncture to solicit their services. We only service a very little area in southeast Michigan. Be taught what you can here for free, so that you will not require any home computer repair gurus for help. If you are inquisitive what our website looks like take a look, I am very proud of it: www.CHcompsol.com

What not to do. Do not shell out for such programs like Norton Anti Virus, Mcafee Anti Virus, or any other over priced program. These programs expend more on advertising than on the quality of their product, and most will not assist you in your mission to get your home computer repaired. Also there are programs obtainable only by way of the internet which will not resolve any of your home computer repair problems and only make your bank account decrease.

Some programs are, Registry Repair, Registry Cleaner, Reg Mechanic, and Reg Cure. These programs will cause you a lot greater harm than benefit, and there are not a lot of ways to get help in the occasion you do not recognize how it works.

I have experimented with most of the programs in one way or more on my home computer. You can discover a lot of them when you do a very easy Google query for “home computer repair”. I have thus far not found one program that works effectively for a broad variety of computer repair problems. There are a number of programs that function well for very precise list of home computer repair jobs, the problem then is in recognizing your individual issue, and can it be fixed without spending money; often the answer is yes!

In the occasion I do ever find a program that can resolve a lot of the normal home computer repair issues, I won’t delay in endorsing the program and I will profit monetarily. You have been warned. I am human and this is what I love to do, if I can get paid for it, while staying honest, I will.  Until then, on with the free home computer repair counsel and instruction…

Home Computer Repair - how did I learn?

How do I identify how to repair home computer repair problems? I have learned a lot, diverse things from different programs that I had to buy.  I educated myself that these programs were not doing anything really complicated, everything I knew I could do myself .  

I have decided not to tell you the exact learning process with my experience with various programs, and online tutorials about home computer repair.  That will just end up boring you a lot, and you’ll leave and end up paying for some program that will cause you more harm than good.  Not to mention cause your bank account $ amount to decrease!  Instead I will explain to you in very simple terms how to do your very own home computer repair.

I’ve gained the knowledge, so I am passing it off to you, in the hopes you can benefit, or your computer can benefit, without spending loads of cash on programs that will not work and just confuse you. 

Most programs that claim to fix your computer, do not, and are a big waste of $$$. I know, as I have tried a lot of them when first getting into home computer repair. I learned a lot from them, in how they worked, but my bank account took a hit for this.

I learned that these programs were not doing anything special, and I eventually taught myself the gist  what each program did.  Now I am able to fix almost any home computer repair problem. You will have the ability to do the same, but you will not have to learn from an over priced program you have to purchase and spend hours interpreting.  

You could now do one of two things:  use a professional company to do your home computer repairs or you can comprehend that almost all problems are very simple to fix, and you are able to do it, with a little help from me, in no time flat.

So don’t become stressed out while reading my blogs, ingest my lessons one step at a time. I wish I could emphasize this more, you must take this slowly and stop when you don’t understand something before moving on. In very little time you will have the skills to identify and resolve most of your own home computer repair issues.


