Title: 
How many Macs are too many macs?

Word Count:
356

Summary:
Macs hold a special place in the hearts of Macfanatics. Mike Wendland shares a common dilemma: When to part with much loved computers that have been replaced by newer, shiner Macs.


Keywords:
Apple, Macs, MacBook


Article Body:
Please don't think me greedy.

I'm just attached to my Macs.

I suspect I'm not alone: The more Mac computers I get, the harder it is to part with them. I no sooner pay for one than I buy another. And although I have sold a few over the years, lately I'm turning into a Mac miser.

You know those little old ladies that the newspapers regularly write about that have 347 cats in their house?

That's what I'm worried I may be like with my Macs.

I have a dual processor G5 with dual monitors, a 15-in PowerBook, a 15-in MacBook Pro, a G5 20-inch iMac and - thanks to work - a new 17-inch MacBook Pro.

There’s no way I can use them all. But it’s almost impossible to part with any of them.

I, for sure, should sell the PowerBook and, twice now, have started to post it on eBay or Craig’s List, only to chicken out at the last minute. The new Intel MacBooks don’t work with my Verizon Broadband Access PC card. The PowerBook does. So, I tell myself, I may need it when I go on vacation in a few weeks in case the place where we’ll be staying doesn’t have Net access.

Then there’s the new 15-in MBP. I bought it in March, only to be pleasantly surprised when, a month later, my employer suddenly provided me with a 17-in MBP. I should sell the 15-in. But, then again, that’s mine. What if work suddenly took back their 17-incher. And so the 15-in MBP sits in a carrycase. Just in case.

I don’t really use the big G5 and the two monitor setup anymore either. But when it comes to listing them, I get queasy. It’d be like selling a child. Or getting rid of my dog. I can’t. i just can’t.

The iMac is easy. I have given that to my wife. No way would she part with that. She’s now as hooked on Macs as I am.

Still, I wonder…. how many Macs are too many Macs?


