Title: 
How Headphones Work

Word Count:
322

Summary:
We use headphones all the time – to listen to MP3s and DVD’s, play musical instruments, and more. But how exactly do they work?

Essentially, headphones are a pair of transducers that receive electrical signals from some sort of media player or receiver. The headphone’s speakers convert these signals to sound waves that your ears can then hear. Based on this description, you may immediately think of how telephones and radios function. And indeed, headphones preceded both of...


Keywords:



Article Body:
We use headphones all the time – to listen to MP3s and DVD’s, play musical instruments, and more. But how exactly do they work?

Essentially, headphones are a pair of transducers that receive electrical signals from some sort of media player or receiver. The headphone’s speakers convert these signals to sound waves that your ears can then hear. Based on this description, you may immediately think of how telephones and radios function. And indeed, headphones preceded both of these inventions.

There are four basic types of headphones: circumaural, supra-aural, earbuds/earphones, and canalphones. The differences between them are mostly visible – they vary in size and style. A lot of people these days are concerned only on the looks and style of the heaphone...I feel thats a bad thing. You should be more concerned about the quality and durability of the headphones you are purchasing, rather than worry how you are going to look with them on your head. Would you rather have a great listening experience that will last a long time, or would you rather look better and have a bad listening experience?

However, studies have shown that using headphones at a high volume level can lead to temporary or permanent hearing damage. Companies have responded to this danger, promoting safer products. Some people believe closed-air headphones, which are sealed, are actually better for hearing than open-air headphones, which allow outside interference. This is because people are then less tempted to turn up the volume because the sound quality is so good already.

When looking for a new set of headphones, you can visit your local retailer or shop online. Wireless headphones are a popular trend and they allow users to roam about while listening to music or other audio, rather than having to sit stationary next to their MP3 player or computer. Whatever your needs or budget, you’re sure to find the right headphones for you.


