Title: 
How To Buy A Desktop Computer Online

Word Count:
647

Summary:
The internet has ushered in a new way for companies and customers to do business. Where it once was considered rare to order a product online, it has now become the norm. The computer industry is made up of many quality companies that all offer their products online. But if you are in the market for a desktop computer, how can you be sure that you are making the right decision? In this article, we’ll simplify the process so that you know how to buy a desktop computer online....


Keywords:



Article Body:
The internet has ushered in a new way for companies and customers to do business. Where it once was considered rare to order a product online, it has now become the norm. The computer industry is made up of many quality companies that all offer their products online. But if you are in the market for a desktop computer, how can you be sure that you are making the right decision? In this article, we’ll simplify the process so that you know how to buy a desktop computer online.

The good news in buying desktop computers today is that you are able to get a lot of capabilities at a very affordable price. It wasn’t too long ago that desktop computers would cost thousands of dollars, but that is no longer the case. Now, you are able to receive a high quality desktop computer for as low as $500, sometimes even lower. Now that you know price won’t play too much of a factor, the first determination you have to make when buying a desktop computer online is what you intend to use the system for.

If you are planning on buying a computer for basic tasks such as word processing and surfing the internet, there is really no need to buy an expensive model. Most basic desktop computers offer 512MB RAM (memory), and this should be more than enough to serve your needs. With that being said, it is best to buy a desktop computer with atleast 1GB of RAM, because you may need it later on down the road. While you might pay a few extra dollars for the memory, it is well worth it.

However, if you plan on using the computer for optimized gaming and video, you will definitely need to boost the quality of your system. Most of these higher-end desktop computers still cost less than $1000, and these babies can fly. If you are the type of person who doesn’t like to wait, then it is all about the processor. If you are ultra-serious about your gaming and video, you would be best served to buy a computer with a dual –core processor. Dual core processors allow for insanely fast multi-tasking, and are perfect for those people who have the need for speed. Intel makes several of these processors (4, D, and Extreme Edition being a few) as does Athlon (64 X2).

Frankly, the rest of the details regarding the desktop computer are of lesser importance, and they should be more than adequate depending upon your individual needs. One final note regarding your computer choice – it is recommended you buy an extra warranty. This could save you big money if something should go wrong with the computer down the line.

Now, let’s turn our attention towards the actual purchasing of the computer. It is vital that you choose the company wisely, and the best way is by doing an adequate amount of research. Most high-end companies (Dell, Gateway, HP) have products that can be trusted, but that’s not to say you should limit your thinking to only the major players. There are many quality computer companies out there that may be flying under the radar.

When placing an order online, it is important to protect your personal information at all times. It is best to only do business with companies that offer a secure server at the online checkout. There are several encryption services (VeriSign being one) that will make sure your personal information stays safe. Make sure the web site you order from has such a measure in place.

Hopefully, these tips on how to buy a desktop computer online will help you make the right choice based on your individual needs. Remember to get a desktop computer that has all the features you need, and do your homework before actually turning over your payment information. Good luck!


