Title: 
How To Create Software Without Knowing How...

Word Count:
427

Summary:
In many ways software is the key to the future because it is the means by which people are going to set up and manage every aspect of their business whatever that may be. As our economy moves more and more onto the internet the need for the ability to create software is going to increase dramatically. As you know from economics 101 this large increase in demand will cause a proportional increase in the price of the service or skill of programming and the geek programmers are ...


Keywords:
create software


Article Body:
In many ways software is the key to the future because it is the means by which people are going to set up and manage every aspect of their business whatever that may be. As our economy moves more and more onto the internet the need for the ability to create software is going to increase dramatically. As you know from economics 101 this large increase in demand will cause a proportional increase in the price of the service or skill of programming and the geek programmers are going to make loads of cash. This will then all level out but it will take a long time--so basically prices for "necessary" software soar and stay high for a good long period of time.

The resulting increase in the price of software will almost certainly be prohibitive to some companies and "only the strong will remain." So what is my basic message then? Well it's simple either develop the ability yourself to create software, save up a lot of money so you can pay for it later, or develop the ability to see into the future to know all of different software tools that you will need to effectively run your company in 10 years and have it developed ahead of time for today’s prices. None of these options sound good if you aren't tech smart do they? Well that's because they are either wasteful or impossible save some sort of superhuman power. So is there another way?

Why of course there is! That's because people are always thinking into the future to try and come up with something that answers future problems and will make them a lot of money. Basically programmers have recognized the need in the future for software development and they have also recognized that if they can create something now they can get a leg up on all of the other programmers out there who have to wait to get there cut of the looming trend. In short they have developed software to create software!

Basically this software is able to take instructions from a person that knows how they want a tool to work but doesn't know how to write the code to make it happen. So more or less its a translator of the English language into a computer language. The great thing is that it also includes the ability to test the product and correct things automatically in order to create software that runs efficiently and is able to conform to the owners specifications even if they change over time.


