Title: 
How To manage Your Personal Computer Files, The Easy Way!

Word Count:
461

Summary:
Have you ever been so busy on the internet going from page to page, saving this and that signing up for this program and that leads you to another and so on and so on?


Keywords:
internet,business,marketing,earn,money,home,computer,work


Article Body:
Have you ever been so busy on the internet going from page to page, saving this and that signing up for this program and that leads you to another and so on and so on?

It gets a bit confusing and all too often you lose vital links and bits of information. This article will show you in simple terms, how I organize my files and stuff, it may even give you some ideas that you can use with your current system.

This is just what I do, and it’s written for those of us that aren’t
super wizz internet geeks.

A Directory is something in your computer that looks like a manila envelope. It’s often called a folder.
You use these as you would a huge manila folder (in real life), because you can put so many pages “Files” in them, you can also put other “Folders/Directories” in them, this makes a “sub directory” or “subfolder”.
First, I’ll assume you can do the basics or else you wouldn’t be reading this.
So in “my documents”
Click on “Make a new folder” and call it “Internet Business” this folder is now a sub folder of “my documents”.

SAVE EVERYTHING TO DO WITH YOUR INTERNET BUSINESS IN “internet business” according to the subfolders we are about to make.

Second, Open “Internet business” and click on “new folder” as you just did in “my documents”. Now you will be making subfolders of “Internet business” go ahead and make as many as you can think of!
These will get you started!
“Mailing lists”, “Loginsfo”, “web building Stuff”, Affiliate referral urls”, “Click ex referral urls”, “Affiliate Banners”, “Click banners”, “Draft articles”, “Email letters”.

In each of these folders you’re going to place “files”, I use note book for everything now. When I started I was using excel and word.
But the problem with using them is that they are too big and too slow, especially when you are trying to do 10 different things at once.
Using “notebook” will save space on your hard drive and is a lot more “light weight” so it’s faster and speed is everything!
It also gives you some experience that will come in handy later when you start writing “html code”.
That’s probably a good subject for another article.

Finally, now you should have a directory set up with lots of empty folders, and files.
Simply save everything you come across in one of the sub folders of “Internet business” and if you need to you can create more sub folders of “internet business” or subfolders of the subfolders, etc.

That’s one simple way to keep all your important information.

I sincerely wish you good luck and happiness 

Bill Boyd


