Title: 
How to Save Money When Buying Toner Cartridges For Laser Printers

Word Count:
363

Summary:
Anyone who has ever been responsible for purchasing office supplies knows that toner cartridges for laser printers can be very expensive. Of course, most laser printers will provide superior quality printing at a reduced per page cost vs. ink jet printers, but that is little consolation when having to purchase multiple toner cartridges.


Keywords:
inkjet, inkjets, inkjet cartridges, inkjets cartridges


Article Body:
Anyone who has ever been responsible for purchasing office supplies knows that toner cartridges for laser printers can be very expensive. Of course, most laser printers will provide superior quality printing at a reduced per page cost vs. ink jet printers, but that is little consolation when having to purchase multiple toner cartridges.

One way to save substantially on toner cartridges and other laser printer accessories is to purchase these items from an online retailer. Online retailers usually offer a great selection at prices that are better than local retailers. One reason for the disparity in pricing is that online retailers have little in the way of overhead. While local retailers must price according to their geographic location and are often responsible for the lease on a commercial property, online retailers rarely deal with these concerns. This allows them to reduce the cost of their products while maintaining the same profit margins. Online retailers are seldom hit with the same stock shortages that local retailers often encounter, and the price of shipping or delivery is often included with the order. 

While most local retailers will take used toner cartridges, very few offer anything in the way of remanufactured or returned cartridges. Most online retailers have remanufactured cartridges available that will work just as well as new cartridges but are much less expensive. Many online retailers will sell opened toner cartridges that customers have returned at a discount, which is another option for those looking to minimize their toner expenses. For those who are unaware, re-manufactured cartridges are recycled toner cartridges that have been filled again and tested for proper working order. In addition to being cheaper than new cartridges, remanufactured cartridges are also better for the environment as well. 

Many online retailers and some local retailers will also offer after market ink cartridges. These cartridges are made by someone other than the printer manufacturer and meet the same design specs of their counterparts. Many manufacturers will indicate that only certified replacement products are suitable for use in their printers, although that is rarely the case. Of course, consumers should check to see if using compatible aftermarket cartridges would violate their warranty before purchasing.


