Title: 
I'm Happy To Have A Brand New 17 Inch Notebook Computer

Word Count:
417

Summary:
Not to long ago I got a 17 inch notebook, and I must say that I'm quite impressed with its performance and quality. Technology has really improved and therefore this notebook is so much better than the old IBM Thinkpad that I had many years ago.

In those days, laptop computers were bulky and kind of big, the screen resolution was terrible, they were even more expensive than now, and the batteries had very low life expectancy. Thankfully my new Dell 17 inch notebook is ever...


Keywords:
computer, notebook, computer reviews, lcd, screens


Article Body:
Not to long ago I got a 17 inch notebook, and I must say that I'm quite impressed with its performance and quality. Technology has really improved and therefore this notebook is so much better than the old IBM Thinkpad that I had many years ago.

In those days, laptop computers were bulky and kind of big, the screen resolution was terrible, they were even more expensive than now, and the batteries had very low life expectancy. Thankfully my new Dell 17 inch notebook is everything that my old laptop was not. It is sleek, low-profile, with many hours of battery life, and a delightful high-resolution lcd screen.

I waited very long before I finally purchased my new 17 inch notebook. Don't you find the process of buying a new computer agonizing?

The problem I think we all experience is that no matter how long you wait, the very next month after you buy whatever system you have chosen to purchase, there is always something cheaper and better at a lower price and with a better warranty. It is enough to drive you completely nuts.

Nevertheless, I knew that the convenience of a new laptop computer was worth it, and eventually I broke down and bought my new 17 inch notebook. And I am sure glad that I did. There is nothing that beats a laptop computer.

The best thing about my 17 inch notebook is how easy it makes work on the go. With the prevalence of wifi coffee houses, I can work from my 17 inch notebook from all about town.

I do a considerable amount of freelancing, so the luxury of being able to do all my work on the go, when I want, and from where I want, makes my life almost feel like a permanent vacation. And when I am done with my 17 inch notebook, I slip it into my laptop computer sleeve, and can carry it around me anywhere.

It is no burden at all, because of its light weight, and though I occasionally worry about having it stolen, or accidentally damaged, so far no harm has come to my computer. My sturdy 17 inch notebook has really revolutionized my life.

Of course, for many people, getting a new 17 inch notebook computer like I have done might be a bad idea. If you are not good at keeping track of your stuff, it is a definite no. You could easily lose your 17 inch notebook computer, along with all of your work and data, due to one careless mistake.


