Title: 
Inkjet Refill Kits – The Economical And Environmentally Friendly Way To Reduce Printing Cost

Word Count:
302

Summary:
Inkjet printing is the most popular printing technology for home users and small businesses. Inkjet printers are versatile, inexpensive and produce good printing quality. The price of inkjet printers has dropped considerably over the past few years but the cost of replacement ink cartridges remains extremely high. 

To reduce the printing cost, consumers are looking for cheap alternatives. There are many options available, such as compatible / generic cartridges or remanufa...


Keywords:
printer cartridges,printer ink,ink cartridges,inkjet refill kits,inkjet cartridges


Article Body:
Inkjet printing is the most popular printing technology for home users and small businesses. Inkjet printers are versatile, inexpensive and produce good printing quality. The price of inkjet printers has dropped considerably over the past few years but the cost of replacement ink cartridges remains extremely high. 

To reduce the printing cost, consumers are looking for cheap alternatives. There are many options available, such as compatible / generic cartridges or remanufactured / refurbished cartridges. But the most economical and environmentally friendly way is to use the inkjet refill kits. 

For example, a typical name brand replacement cartridge costs $20-30. The price of a dual refill kit is only $10, which can refill the ink cartridge twice. That means consumers can save 75-80% buying one refill kit instead of two new cartridges. Refilling old cartridges is also good for the environment. It saves landfill space to dispose used cartridges and extra resources to produce new cartridges.

Most people can refill the cartridges themselves. One customer was quoted saying “It is not difficult at all, I just follow the instructions and my ink cartridge is good as new in 10 minutes”. Nevertheless, some precautions should be taken when refilling your own ink cartridges. 

In general, the cartridge should be refilled before it has run out of ink. If printing continues after the ink has run dry, the cartridge's nozzle may burn out and be permanently damaged. Once the nozzle is damaged, it is impossible to reuse the cartridge. In addition, refilling the cartridge with too much ink can also cause it to overflow or uneven absorption of ink into the sponge, resulting in ink leakage and poor print output. 

To learn more about inkjet refill kits and to find out whether they are available for your printer model, please visit the following website: http://inkjets.4reviews.net/refill_kit.htm


