Title: 
iPaq Software Brings The Pocket PC To Life

Word Count:
396

Summary:
The iPAQ software brings the essential functionality to Hewlett Packard PDAs or pocket PCs. It is what let’s PDA users send and receive text messages. These are composed of Microsoft Word Mobile files and the preparation of Microsoft Excel Mobile charts. The iPaq users can also browse Microsoft PowerPoint presentations; they just can’t edit or make them on their pocket PCs

This software also makes it possible to: retrieve e-mail, keep track of appointments and schedules an...


Keywords:
top pda, pda accessory, pda software, pda buying guide


Article Body:
The iPAQ software brings the essential functionality to Hewlett Packard PDAs or pocket PCs. It is what let’s PDA users send and receive text messages. These are composed of Microsoft Word Mobile files and the preparation of Microsoft Excel Mobile charts. The iPaq users can also browse Microsoft PowerPoint presentations; they just can’t edit or make them on their pocket PCs

This software also makes it possible to: retrieve e-mail, keep track of appointments and schedules and even surf the Internet. There are even capabilities to enables users to track sales and check inventory.

With the iPaq software you can also download third-party software like e-books, games, maps or business software. This truly makes the IPaq a valuable source of information. The iPAQ uses the Windows Mobile 2003 Second Edition to perform these powerful and varied functions. Much more than the earlier versions.

The HP iPaq rx1950, which is the latest in the iPAQ series, incorporates the latest Windows Mobile 5 operating system, which is even more powerful. It includes updates of Word, Outlook, Excel, Internet Explorer, and PowerPoint files. Further, the OS comes with Windows Media Player 10 Mobile and can play all the major audio and video file formats, including MP3, WMA, and WMV.

Besides Windows Mobile software, the iPAQ also use HP's Image Zone software. This software is used to display images and set up slide shows. HP also provides HP Protect Tools to protect data stored on the iPAQ with a password or a PIN number.
The other software that HP provides is Task Switcher, iPAQ Audio, and a couple of games.

Need a travel guide? The iPAQ GPS software is can be installed on iPAQs that have GPS hardware. This software turns iPAQ into your own handheld travel guides. IPAQ users can navigate roads like a just like a local in all parts of the US and Canada. The software not only shows the shortest route to reach a destination but also keeps informing the user of the distance left and the estimated time of arrival. It even re-routes the user if a turn is missed.

Yesterday’s PDAs ere just organizational tools but today’s iPAQ can perform scores of tasks beyond keeping schedules, appointments and tracking expenses. Things that were just a dream a few years ago have become a reality today, thanks to having the right kind of software.


