Title: 
Latest Inventions!  Check Out These New Gizmos And Gadgets!

Word Count:
529

Summary:
The Newest Gizmos and Gadgets on the Market:

Ingenuity and technological advances are constantly resulting in new gizmos and gadgets. Gadgets can be both fun and functional and can save the owner time and effort. Below you’ll find descriptions of some of the latest inventions available on the market.

Microsoft Xbox 360

The Microsoft Xbox 360 is one of the latest inventions of video games. Video game lovers everywhere are rejoicing the arrival of the new system. The n...


Keywords:
invention, gizmo, gadget, device


Article Body:
The Newest Gizmos and Gadgets on the Market:

Ingenuity and technological advances are constantly resulting in new gizmos and gadgets. Gadgets can be both fun and functional and can save the owner time and effort. Below you’ll find descriptions of some of the latest inventions available on the market.

Microsoft Xbox 360

The Microsoft Xbox 360 is one of the latest inventions of video games. Video game lovers everywhere are rejoicing the arrival of the new system. The newest Xbox is still a gamer’s dream, but it is also being marketed as a media center. Not only can the system be used for playing video games, but it can also be used to play DVDs, CDs and MP3s. Digital cameras can be hooked up to it, as well as mp3 players and even personal computers.

Irobot Scooba

Anyone who has scrubbed a dirty floor before, take note of the latest inventions from iRobot! The iRobot Corporation has introduced the Scooba, a floor washing robot. Unlike a mop, which uses dirty water to clean, the Scooba cleans only with clean water. The Scooba is programmed to first pick up things like sand and dirt from the floor, then apply clean water and solution to the floor, scrub the floor and clean up the dirty solution. The tiny Scooba is also able to fit into tight spots that are difficult to reach with a mop. IRobot also makes the Roomba, a robot used in vacuuming the home.

Mobiky Genius

A different type of latest inventions is the Mobiky Genius folding bicycle. This bike was developed in response to difficulties encountered by commuters in maneuvering congested city streets and sidewalks. Because it folds up, the Mobiky Genius is easy to carry up and down stairs and can be easily stored.

Philips Digital Photo Display

Another of the latest inventions is the Philips 7FF1AW 7-inch Digital Photo Display. This gadget is a great way to display all those digital photos sitting on the computer that you’ve been planning to print at some point. The display looks like a picture frame, and you can choose to show a slideshow or display individual pictures. The quality of the display is great, not distorted. Photos can be downloaded from the computer or straight from the camera, and up to 50 photos can be stored on the Digital Photo Display.

Epson PictureMate Deluxe Viewer Edition 

While many people have digital cameras these days, most of the pictures taken with those cameras will never be printed out. It’s just too much of a hassle to copy them onto a disk, take them to the camera shop, upload them and wait. Fortunately, one of the latest inventions from Epson has made printing those pictures much simpler. The Epson PictureMate Deluxe Viewer Edition is a portable photo printer. You can simply insert the camera’s memory card into the printer, view the photos on a display screen and select the ones you want to print and print them. You can even make changes to the photos, such as adjusting the brightness, before printing. The PictureMate printer produces pictures with much better quality than most digital printers do.


