Title: 
Leveraging Digital Information Products

Word Count:
490

Summary:
PDFs, ebooks, audio files, video packages, and software programs are examples of digital information products. Like all products, they need to be manufactured, inventoried, and finally shipped to the buyer when the purchase is made.

Some advantages of digital products are that they can be stored easily on a variety of media like your hard disk, cd, dvd, or usb memory stick as well as delivered electronically anywhere in the world with an internet connection.

Traditional...


Keywords:



Article Body:
PDFs, ebooks, audio files, video packages, and software programs are examples of digital information products. Like all products, they need to be manufactured, inventoried, and finally shipped to the buyer when the purchase is made.

Some advantages of digital products are that they can be stored easily on a variety of media like your hard disk, cd, dvd, or usb memory stick as well as delivered electronically anywhere in the world with an internet connection.

Traditional physical products incur significant expenses in production of inventory, storage, packaging and shipping that contribute to the reduction of your profit margin especially where there is competition.

On the other hand, the main expense incurred with digital products is in production. Storage and delivery advantages provide instant fulfillment to buyers and so can realize very high margins and profits.

While competitive advantage over traditional product lines are obvious, a new form of competition is emerging in the digital marketplace. The quantitative problem being solved by technology leaves only the quality to be measured or tested.

What all publications have in common is that they contain information and the quality of that information is discovered by reading. Unfortunately, digital products can be more difficult to evaluate without a table of contents to consider. Whether the publication is free or not, evaluation can be frustrating and the wrong choice lead to wasted time, effort, and sometimes money. Although refund guarantees are included with some packages, there is no refund of your time or effort.

What instant food did for kitchen prep time, digital ebooks are doing for business building. However, quality remains in the content or use value not the package. Unfortunately, the current trend appears weighted toward excellent sales and marketing techniques not content.

The extraordinary bonus and content bundles sometimes priced in the thousands of dollars are typically offered for a low one time payment usually less than a hundred dollars and is akin to the million dollar opportunity theories that in reality is quite different. In other words over delivery claims may significantly differ from actual content value.

To help mitigate diminishing return found in the gap between over-delivery-theory indicated by quantity and under-delivery-reality indicated by quality, I set up a site at h4h.biz to list exceptions to help leverage time in favor of the buyer and to stimulate content enrichment.

So far, low cost or free ebooks that are not produced in pdf format tend to be at least unavailable to some operating systems and frequently of low quality, content poor, or just dysfunctional.

To achieve the best results with your online business, focus efforts on finding digital products that you can promote that are of high quality and in a professional pdf package. Alternatively, you can produce your own ebook to expand your market by using a service like h4h.biz that offers professional pdf packaging. After all, content now appears to be the next great opportunity knocking.


