Title: 
Make and Sell Perfume

Word Count:
550

Summary:
You have now begun to produce your home made perfume, and have decided not just to give it as gifts to your friends or family, but instead would like to sell it to a wider audience.

One of the first things you will need to look at when making the decision on selling your own perfume is what it will be called. You will then need to start looking for bottles into which you can put your finished perfume. Then you will need to design a label for inclusion on the bottle, and also the kind of packaging that you will present the perfume in....


Keywords:
How to Sell Your Home Made Perfume


Article Body:
You have now begun to produce your home made perfume, and have decided not just to give it as gifts to your friends or family, but instead would like to sell it to a wider audience.

One of the first things you will need to look at when making the decision on selling your own perfume is what it will be called. You will then need to start looking for bottles into which you can put your finished perfume. Then you will need to design a label for inclusion on the bottle, and also the kind of packaging that you will present the perfume in.

When looking at what sort of bottles you are considering to place your finished product in, you might want to think about vintage perfume bottles (but make sure they have been thoroughly sterilized). They will certainly provide you with an individual look that can not be found when buying perfumes that have been mass produced. Just take a wander around your local antique shops or bric-a-brac shop, and you will soon find a wealth of different perfume bottles that you could use.

The best place to start when you are considering selling your own perfume is to do a search on the internet. There are many sites and companies which will provide you with all the necessary information you need in order to start up.

However, you should be warned that, when you decide to sell your own perfume, you will need to make some outlays in order to get the business started.

For instance, you will need to factor in such costs as the purchase of all the ingredients for making the perfume, and the bottles that you will be putting the finished product into. Other costs that you will have to pay out for are the production of the labels that will be affixed to your finished product’s bottles, and the cost of the packaging that you will use.

When first selling your product, it is advisable that you keep a record of all of your outgoing expenses so that you can price your perfume accordingly. The usual pricing equation is to triple the price it has cost you to manufacture your product. So say it has cost you $5 to produce each bottle, you should probably sell it for at least $15.

One of the best ways of selling your own perfume is through word of mouth of friends and family. However, for a small outlay, you could actually set up your own website and sell it from there.

If you are not sure how to go about setting up a website, then by searching the internet you will soon find there are lots of people out there who are willing to help. There are even people who have set up sites which will not only help you to build your site, but also help with the marketing and promotion of the product you have to offer. Begin by doing a search on the internet and looking for “starting a small web business”. You will soon find a whole list of sites that are willing to assist you.

So, as you can see, making perfume is not only easy and provides you with a new skill, but it can also be profitable too!


