Title: 
Making Life Simple With Wireless Technology

Word Count:
459

Summary:
Wireless fidelity , or WiFi, is an amazing technology that allows you to network your computers, office, home, etc. without the need for wires. This makes networking so much easier and less messy because wires are not used. The computers simply connect to the network via radio signals.

Because of this easiness, many businesses, schools, malls, restaurants, cafes, stores, airports and other businesses have set up wireless hot spots that allow anyone to log onto the network....


Keywords:
wireless,cellular,technology,software,hardware,data,internet,phone


Article Body:
Wireless fidelity , or WiFi, is an amazing technology that allows you to network your computers, office, home, etc. without the need for wires. This makes networking so much easier and less messy because wires are not used. The computers simply connect to the network via radio signals.

Because of this easiness, many businesses, schools, malls, restaurants, cafes, stores, airports and other businesses have set up wireless hot spots that allow anyone to log onto the network. This is amazing for individuals that need to be able to work from any location, however there are some disadvantages because hot spots can be used by unauthorized users if not adequately protected through different security safeguards.

Hot spots are relatively new, but are growing in acceptance and popularity because of the incredible access it gives to students, travelers, business people and the like. Some hot spots are free, while others charge an hourly rate.

These days, if you go to an airport or hotel you will see signs that say internet zone or hotspot and will either say free or how to pay. Because of this evolution, individuals are able to work and study wherever they are, which makes traveling and working much easier and less downtime which is very important.

Wireless networking can also be installed in your home, which means you can work in any room in your home or even outside if you so choose. Many individuals are starting to realize how much easier this makes their lives and are installing the equipment necessary for a wireless network.

To get started, you will need an Internet connection, a router, and then wireless cards for your respective computers. The router allows the Internet signal to be routed throughout the home and the wireless cards that each computer has picks up the signal which eliminates the use of wires. All of this equipment can be purchased in your local computer store or online if you are looking for extra discounts.

If you are interested in installing a wireless network in your home, office, or business, then you can do some research online and install it yourself if you know even a little bit about computers. However, if you have a lot of computers you want to connect or are unsure of what you are doing, then you might consider hiring a professional to handle your wireless solution for you.

Once you have the wireless network setup anyone in your “hotspot” will be able to log onto the server as long as they are within range. However, if you want to exclude just anyone from logging on then you can use a virtual private network, Internet Protocol Security, or other security programs that will protect unauthorized users from logging onto your network.


