Title: 
Media Players And The Digital Age

Word Count:
505

Summary:
It is important for you to know exactly what a media player is, and how you may want to use it with your lifestyle. Remember the longer you wait to learn, the more you will feel left behind and possibly be missing many entertainments features too. 

The word multimedia player has its beginnings with the media technology from radio and TV. It is just another form of communication written in computer software as files, which creates another form of communication for people to...


Keywords:
media player,computers,technology,mp3,music,videos,dvd,cd


Article Body:
It is important for you to know exactly what a media player is, and how you may want to use it with your lifestyle. Remember the longer you wait to learn, the more you will feel left behind and possibly be missing many entertainments features too. 

The word multimedia player has its beginnings with the media technology from radio and TV. It is just another form of communication written in computer software as files, which creates another form of communication for people to use. Media player software has created many new forms to communicate with called multimedia devices. When people think of multimedia software, they think digital. A media player is used to transmit text, graphics, audio and video. Options exist today that up until a decade ago, seemed impossible to imagine. 

Different professional work environments that extensively use media player software are the entertainment industry, medical profession, and educational and training development. Great graphic imaging, as in the movie I Robot and Shrek, are two good examples of digital media player imaging. Medical uses of media player software are far reaching. Digital imaging with MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) that offers a detailed look inside the body and other such applications have saved numerous lives. In addition, education and training for jobs have become high tech because of digital software. Training provided for police enforcement and military uses is widespread. The use of a media player to simulate vehicle chases has saved a lot of police officers lives and money as well. The Air Force regularly trains it pilots on flight simulators that use media player graphics and text. As with the police departments, it is a lot cheaper and safer to train and learn through this method. 

What are the personal benefits for people in using any type of media player software? Studies have proven that by using any two forms of multimedia mediums, people learn easier. This is especially important for older people. As you age, you can still learn, but it is much harder to do. With today’s fluid job market, that becomes important an important factor for everyone. Also, one of the goals of on the job training is to reduce accidents in the workplace. When people use media player software to learn job safety it sticks with them and accidents are reduced. Audio and visual learning make a great impact on how information is stored in the brain – and it is always better to use both. 

The world is a different place than it was only a decade ago. Media player software is here to stay, and in many ways, it has improved our life and opened us to different discoveries in entertainment and lifestyles. Text messages in email, music and even pictures zoom across the Internet at lightning speed. New inventions like the iPods, and digital picture frames are storming the market, and companies are making some good money because of it. Who knows where it will be in twenty years. It will be interesting to find out.


