Title: 
MySpace Layouts – step by step guide

Word Count:
485

Summary:
Here is how you go about using MySpace layouts for your MySpace page. First step is to login to your account and then find that "edit profile" link.


Keywords:
Myspace Layouts, Myspace Backgrounds, Myspace Codes, Myspace Graphics


Article Body:
Here is how you go about using MySpace layouts for your MySpace page. First step is to login to your account and then find that "edit profile" link. Have you made any attempts to put in some information in the “about me” box? It’s now time to start pimping the page up, add one of the MySpace layouts and kick start the show.

if you are working on a internet explorer that allows you to open multiple tabs, open one more and search for any site related to MySpace layouts. Once you find it, depending on what your interests are go towards those MySpace layouts. For women, there are various awesome layouts on these MySpace layouts and other sites as well. Whatever MySpace layouts site you are on, if you see a HTML code at the bottom near the theme picture, then you can use that on your profile page. Sometimes, they have various ads that can help direct people browsing through that site to the site that will help find more MySpace layouts on.

Once you have opened another tab or window, key in the address of the MySpace layouts website in the address bar. These sites done The MySpace layouts does not require you to be a member or register to browse through or access their MySpace layouts  Now, as you scroll down the page, you will notice on the left hand side, there are columns with headings such as Layouts, Glitter text and others. Now, these MySpace layouts are suitable for not just MySpace, Blogs, and various other Social Networking websites. Choose the one that says "MySpace Layouts", it will then load another page that is filled with either categories to choose from or lists down various latest MySpace layouts. Incase you want to go back to the previous menu, simply click on the back arrow up near the address bar. This way you will be able to learn more about browsing on the internet and about how to view or choose from the available MySpace layouts.

The only thing left to do is find what you are looking for from the MySpace layouts site by patiently browsing though the various categories listed down. And once you see a theme you like, click on the preview button near it to watch it open in another browser or tab how the page will appear in real. If there are certain information or buttons missing like "add friends" or if there is no provision for people to leave you messages , you need to go back to the html code and check on the MySpace layouts as to what is missing. You will then have to make the necessary changes and take a look once again to get satisfaction. Dont try to tweak it too much, you might end up messing it up and unable to erase the changes incorporated in the MySpace layouts.


