Title: 
MySpace Layouts- Go for the best

Word Count:
470

Summary:
Looking to create an impression among your friends or associates with stylish MySpace layouts?


Keywords:
Myspace Layouts, Myspace Backgrounds, Myspace Codes, Myspace Graphics


Article Body:
Looking to create an impression among your friends or associates with stylish MySpace layouts? Here are a few easy tips for you to come up with the perfect MySpace layouts for your forum,

1) Paragraphs -
Most of the MySpace layouts users dont know much about web design, they'll often type out text continuously in the ‘About Me' section which will look like one big story without MySpace Layouts. No matter how interesting the write up is, the person visiting the page will get tired after reading the first four to six lines, more so if it goes on the same way for another  40 -50 lines. So when you have decided to use MySpace Layouts, you should avoid making this mistake of putting in overwhelming amount of text and confusing the readers, and make sure to have plenty of break ups between paragraphs.

Unfortunately for non techie people, creating paragraphs is not as easy as pressing the enter button couple of times. You will have to put in html tags in them to get the desired effect and paste this onto 'Edit Profile' in MySpace Layouts. Click on the 'Save All Changes' button and you get to view your profile page which will have neat paragraphs and the text looks presentable. So, to properly format your text and have it in paragraphs along with the MySpace Layouts, you'll have to key in <BR> every time you wish to break and start a new paragraph. It’s as simple as that, and if you want more spacing between the paragraphs to make the MySpace Layouts look nice, add an extra <BR> on that particular place.

2) Text clarity -
MySpace layouts use background images to enhance the profile and the page. But most of the times, we see the MySpace Layouts users forgetting to try it out and not think of the final result. When someone actually attempts to read their page, the colors and text prints displayed might clash with the background images chosen at MySpace Layouts. Therefore to achieve desired result, it is a must to have colors that go well with the background images and are of a decent font size so it is easy on the eyes. Else people will come by look at your MySpace Layouts and leave without leaving a comment; this would be because they were unable to read what’s on your page.

To make effective use of the MySpace Layouts and create a beautiful MySpace page, the member needs to select MySpace Layouts where the text is clear. So either go for light colored MySpace Layouts and dark colored text or vice versa. Make the page friendly and appealing to all, take a look at it from a third person’s point of view and you will understand why it is important to have a neat page.


