Title: 
MySpace Layouts – watch out for hidden links

Word Count:
463

Summary:
Once you start see the nice profiles on MySpace, you instantly go towards either Google or YAHOO and start searching for free MySpace layouts websites.


Keywords:
Myspace Layouts, Myspace Backgrounds, Myspace Codes, Myspace Graphics


Article Body:
Once you start see the nice profiles on MySpace, you instantly go towards either Google or YAHOO and start searching for free MySpace layouts websites. What we dont keep in mind is that the sites we find are likely have maximum spam in them. A MySpace layouts user will not notice these hidden links on those codes. And so they are not able to understand why they are there in the MySpace layouts.  MySpace layouts are all fitted with various hidden backlines to the html codes layouts. What this accomplishes for the MySpace Layouts website is that it becomes a form of free advertising and possible increase in traffic from all over the world. Apart from this, these back links help their pages get a better ranking in the search engine giving it more visibility. The more links to their site, the more important their site looks to Google, therefore the higher up it will rank when MySpace layouts are searched for. MySpace layouts site has a tutorial that gives a bit of detail about how to use and what are the drawbacks of the MySpace layouts... it is advisable that a user go through this if they are new to MySpace layouts and then use the theme they like.

This does not mean you wont find a good layout or the MySpace layouts are all bad. The hidden back links used by the MySpace layouts creators put them there to market their products. It helps keep MySpace layouts site functional coming up with new MySpace layouts. This is a marketing tool that is adopted by most website creators to promote their sites.  However, do stay away from the MySpace layouts that are fitted with too many links and menu modifications. When altering the menu or contact boxes, the back links seem to double in number as this is where they are present. The MySpace layouts site will allow you to modify your MySpace profile and those on other websites without any hassles. They help you edit one item on your page at a time instead of giving you the code for the whole new MySpace layouts in one shot. Thereby you can delete any unwanted additional links or data on the MySpace layouts, and help you learn a bit about HTML coding as well.  These tips will help you create great looking MySpace layouts without much hassle.

All the websites we come across ion the net including MySpace layouts are out there to generate income. And this they do well through all us users. Every time we visit the MySpace layouts or use a layout, they will get income. Also the MySpace layouts have ties ups with adsense or webmaster through which they earn credits and this will get converted into income.


