Title: 
MySpace Layouts – Copy paste for transformation.

Word Count:
467

Summary:
If the purpose of having a membership with a networking site is to reconnect with your old friends and make some new ones, you need to have more than just your basic information on your page.


Keywords:
Myspace Layouts, Myspace Backgrounds, Myspace Codes, Myspace Graphics


Article Body:
If the purpose of having a membership with a networking site is to reconnect with your old friends and make some new ones, you need to have more than just your basic information on your page. This will give passers by something to talk about and you will be able to share your MySpace Layouts related experience with them. There might be people who are members on the site for years but not familiar with MySpace Layouts. You could give them the MySpace Layouts website, or other sites where one can find fun MySpace Layouts from. This will help them change the look of their page and help them connect with you better. MySpace Layouts will become a topic of conversation between the two of you and this chain could grow longer. From trying to change your page to having fun, you will get into these MySpace Layouts modes where you will begin to experiment with your page. If you have always had solid colored MySpace Layouts, you might be willing to give bright flowers or maybe choose a car MySpace Layouts for your page. In case you like electronic goods and are into music, you could put in MySpace Layouts with musical notes in it. These would make the page a perfect representation of who you are.
	
When we write a letter, we are expressing ourselves through the words, and there are some who like to put in a sticker or two. And maybe decorate the pages with a bit of color. When the person at the other end opens it, they will smile noting your signature touch. If you send a musical card instead of a boring routine greeting card, this would make their day better and give them something to look forward to. So, here are some extra frills you can include with your MySpace Layouts,

1. Music -
There are websites related to MySpace Layouts that offer background music. These are accompanied with an html code that can be used just as easily as the MySpace Layouts itself. You can also change the music if your mood changes or if there is a new song that you are currently hooked on to.  But make sure the MySpace Layouts and the song goes well, and the music is not too loud or overbearing. The kind of song you use will also speak about your interests and your personality.

2. Glitter Text –
If you like to jazz up your page with more than MySpace Layouts, you can use the site to generate some fun glitter text. It could be a simple “Hello” or “Have a nice day”. Or a picture with a caption along with the MySpace Layouts. Make sure this does not take up too much space and hide the rest of the text on your page.


