Title: 
New Time-Saving Technology Is About To Revolutionize Your Life

Word Count:
397

Summary:
While it may seem nothing much changes, a lot IS changing, and often right under our noses. Time-saving technology is always at work to help us complete tasks at home and on the job even faster than ever.

When we save time doing a task that used to take us longer, we suddenly have more time to do that task even better OR switch our attention to an entirely different task.

Just think how you did business a few years ago. Instead of answering email, you probably spent muc...


Keywords:
technology,home improvement,gardening,lawn care


Article Body:
While it may seem nothing much changes, a lot IS changing, and often right under our noses. Time-saving technology is always at work to help us complete tasks at home and on the job even faster than ever.

When we save time doing a task that used to take us longer, we suddenly have more time to do that task even better OR switch our attention to an entirely different task.

Just think how you did business a few years ago. Instead of answering email, you probably spent much of your day talking on the phone. Now clients organize their ideas more efficiently to contact you with convenient email. You still spend time working with clients, but I'll bet it's not nearly as much as you spent in the "telephone only" days of the early 1990s.

Think about how technology has changed life in the home. Eighty years ago people didn't have all the high power vacuum cleaners we have today. Homes were a lot dirtier than they are now (despite how Grandma may remember them:-). When vacuum cleaners became affordable and a feature of every home, people started doing a LOT more housework. Believe it or not, historians tell us the average homemaker spends far more time cleaning than she/he did 80 years ago.

That's why I'm so excited about the new lines of "robot" technologies we're starting to see. Actually, this technology has been lurking in the wings for years, but has only recently become advanced enough to operate trouble-free at an affordable cost.

Robot vacuum cleaners can now automatically clean your home, working all day and all night if needed. They don't complain and never need to be paid. Furniture, kid's toys, and pets don't confound them, they just go around.

Equally exciting are new developments in robotic lawn mowers. If you're one of millions of Americans who own a large yard or endure uncomfortably hot summers, you'll immediately see the value of this technology. A Robotic lawn mower can cut your grass with professional quality, handing anything from a small yard to a large five acre estate. Reliability, energy efficiency, and overall convenience have all improved, making this a time-saving technology whose time has come.

Take the long look at technology in your life. Realize that time-savers let you do your job better and can free up more time to do new activities.


