Title: 
Osha Standards And Your Office Computer Monitor

Word Count:
420

Summary:
In the 21st century office, ergonomics has become a very important element of design of structure. More and more officers are being designed to include workstations that follow ergonomic design concepts. Business owners, operators and managers have made employee safety and ergonomically designed workspaces a top priority in this day and age. To that end, the U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA, has set forth guidelines and standards ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
In the 21st century office, ergonomics has become a very important element of design of structure. More and more officers are being designed to include workstations that follow ergonomic design concepts. Business owners, operators and managers have made employee safety and ergonomically designed workspaces a top priority in this day and age. To that end, the U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA, has set forth guidelines and standards to be utilized by business owners, operators and managers in the creation of employee workspaces. In this regard, OSHA has set forth a useful checklist to be utilized by a person responsible for creating employee workplaces and workstations..

In this regard, OSHA has set forth specific guidelines to be utilized when it comes to computer monitors that are being utilized in the workplace. By following these guidelines relating to computer monitors, a business owner, operator or manager can be more comfortable in believing the workplace will be a safe environment for his or her employee team.

First of all, when it comes to computer monitors, OSHA guidelines maintain that a computer monitor screen should be large enough for adequate visibility. In this regard, a fifteen to twenty inch monitor generally is of sufficient size. The fact is that smaller monitor units make it very difficult to read characters on the screen -- which causes eye strain and may result in long term damage. On the other hand, units that are larger than twenty inches require too much space in a workstation and are not practical. And, again, in order to be ergonomically adequate under OSHA guidelines, a screen or monitor in the fifteen to twenty inch range is ideal.

Second, the angle and tilt of the monitor should be easily adjustable. Different people are different sizes and need to have a monitor that can be adjusted to fit their own body size and frames. Additionally, even if a workstation is used by only one person, there may be different work assignments that will be best undertaken with the monitor at alternate angles.

Finally, in order to keep a workspace clear and uncluttered -- and thereby safer and easier to work within -- a business owner, operator or manager should consider buying a flat screen monitor. Flat screens require a significantly reduced amount of space within a workstation or workspace.

More information on the OSHA guidelines pertaining to computer monitors for safe workstations can be found at the OHSA website. OSHA can be reached online at http://www.osha.gov.


