Title: 
Plasma TV Wall Mount

Word Count:
616

Summary:
For those who want their home theatre to imitate the cinematic experience, a plasma TV wall mount is a good investment to save space and to give a great effect. A plasma TV wall mount is easy to install yourself, but if you prefer, you can hire a professional to do the job for you. The price of a typical plasma TV wall mount can range from $60 to $350, and it is a good idea to invest in the best plasma TV wall mount you can afford, since plasma TVs are quite delicate and you ...


Keywords:
plasma TV,home theatre,plasma furniture


Article Body:
For those who want their home theatre to imitate the cinematic experience, a plasma TV wall mount is a good investment to save space and to give a great effect. A plasma TV wall mount is easy to install yourself, but if you prefer, you can hire a professional to do the job for you. The price of a typical plasma TV wall mount can range from $60 to $350, and it is a good idea to invest in the best plasma TV wall mount you can afford, since plasma TVs are quite delicate and you cannot risk having your plasma TV fall to the ground. However, most plasma TV wall mounts do the job sufficiently well. 

Your plasma TV wall mount should contain at least the following items:

• Wall plate
• Rails
• Arms

The wall plate attaches to the wall and the rails are for the back of the television. There should be two perpendicular arms with devices to connect to the back of the plate. The rails enable you to move the TV to the right or the left across the wall and enable you to lift the TV off, if necessary. 

You need to select a plasma TV wall mount suited to the type of plasma TV that you have. The average size is 26-41” and weighs up to 100 pounds. A typical plasma TV wall mount can handle this type of set. However, if you plasma TV is larger than this and weighs more than 100 pounds, you will need a two stud wall mount. 

It is possible to install your plasma TV wall mount on a concrete wall, although you will need a different type of plasma TV mount. Cement anchors are needed to keep you TV in place on a concrete surface, and you can also find long belts and other devices specially designed for concrete. As with any type of Plasma TV mount, ensure that your cement anchors are sturdy enough to hold a heavy unit. 

When you install your plasma TV, you might not be certain about what height you want. If you have a typical, flat plasma TV wall mount, you will need to put your plasma TV at the correct height. However, many people like to have their plasma TV’s a little higher. One reason is that, since plasma TV are so vulnerable to damage, those with children prefer to put their plasma TV as high up as possible to avoid stray balls from hitting the screen. If you want to put your plasma TV up high, you will need a special plasma TV wall mount that tilts so your set can face downward at an angle. You will also need a tilt plasma TV wall mount if your set is not completely flat, but has a gentle curve at the back.

You can purchase a plasma TV wall mount with fixed arms or with articulating arms that move along a 90 degree swivel. The articulating wall mounts may cost a bit more, but are worth the investment if you like to view your television from different angles. They are not much more difficult to install than fixed arm wall mounts, and are just as durable. 

Ensure that your plasma TV wall mount is sufficiently durable. It is a good idea to install your television along with a friend who can help you take your plasma TV on and off the mount while you are testing it for durability. A partner can also see if there is any “giving” or wobbling, and this second pair of eyes might just save your set. If you are unsure of your abilities, it is worthwhile to hire a professional to install your plasma TV mount.


