Title: 
Projection Screens Are For Big Audiences

Word Count:
420

Summary:
Projection screens are special screens used to project an image for the audience. Movie theatres use projection screens on a wide scale. These screens are used in conferences or home theatres as well. The screens serve different purposes in different places. Therefore they are installed in various ways.

The projection screens can be wall-mounted type, pull down type or mobile type. Wall mounted types are needed for exact reproduction of the picture. Movie halls and home th...


Keywords:
projection screens,rear projection screens,front projection tvs and screens,portable screen


Article Body:
Projection screens are special screens used to project an image for the audience. Movie theatres use projection screens on a wide scale. These screens are used in conferences or home theatres as well. The screens serve different purposes in different places. Therefore they are installed in various ways.

The projection screens can be wall-mounted type, pull down type or mobile type. Wall mounted types are needed for exact reproduction of the picture. Movie halls and home theatres use this type of screen. The second type, that is pull down screens do not need a fixed place, they can be used as and when required. Mobile screens are pull down screens mounted on a free stand but the projection of pictures are not perfect in these projection screens.

Projection screens are always matte white or matte grey. This helps in the perfect colour projection of the slides, otherwise, the pictures or images might get discoloured. Matte grey screens or grey screens reflect less light from the projector, they also absorb less light from the room. Image brightness ratio is correctly maintained and many call these projection screens high contrast screens.

The screens may be flat or curved, but flat screens are the preferred ones. Projection screens are used for both back and front projection. The light that is projected on the screen is diffusely reflected by the front projection screens. Back projection screens work differently. The light that is projected on them is diffusely transmitted through the screens.

Like any other consumer items projection screens can be of high quality and bad quality. It depends on how much the prospective buyer is going to pay for a screen. Obviously high quality screens will have higher price tags. It is advisable to go through the details of the product before purchasing. Many manufacturers give a detailed list of what they are offering.

Projection screens are mainly required for commercial purposes like in cinema halls or conference rooms, but individuals might buy them for their home theatre. The buyer has to decide on the screen size. Minimum and maximum viewing distance has to be taken in to account. Minimum viewing distance is the distance closest to the screen from where the viewer can see the whole picture. Maximum viewing distance is the distance furthest from the screen, from which the picture as a whole can be seen. There is a formula for calculating this, but those not strong in mathematics can depend on reliable makers who manufacture screens taking everything in to consideration.


