Title: 
Protect Your Laptop - Get A Skin

Word Count:
327

Summary:
A Laptop sleeve or skin is simply a neoprene or micro fibre pouch that fits snugly around your laptop.


Keywords:
laptop skin, laptop sleeve


Article Body:
A Laptop sleeve or skin is simply a neoprene or micro fibre pouch that fits snugly around your laptop.  The Neoprene pouch was first released by Tucano shortly after Apple Computers Inc released the iBook G3 (that's the snow one).  The product, released as the Tucano Second skin, was literally that. A second skin that fit very closely to the ibook itself, preventing movement and scratches.

Neoprene, the same material used for diving wet suits, was chosen due to it's high strength, longevity, resilience to wear and ability to retain it's shape.  The neoprene simply returns to it's original shape, hence thickness after any applied pressures are removed.  The result is that it adds some protection to your precious laptop against knocks.

Since it's advent, the laptop sleeve has evolved into a fashion statement, with many colors and designs available for you to express yourself.  The skin has moved from being a sleeve targeted primarily at the Apple Macintosh user, into one for PC laptops as well.  The downside for the portable PC user though, is that the manufacturers can't produce a size that fits all.  With thicknesses of laptops varying considerably, a skin that will fit one model perfectly seems overly large on a thinner variant of the same screen size.

Is a laptop sleeve/ skin a good investment?  We think so.  It adds extra life to your laptop and even, if like us, you're upgrading once a year, you'll find that the use of a laptop skin in conjunction with a decent carry case will ensure that your laptop continues to function.

For the avid apple Mac power book or iBook user, investing in a sleeve will simply add to the experience.  Manufacturers such as Tucano, Be-Ez and Crumpler design their skins with you in mind.  You'll find their products literally hug your laptop, protecting the case from damage and all those open ports from dirt that's accumulated in the bottom of your carry case.


