Title: 
Reconditioned Xerox Imaging Equipment is Easier to Buy, Rent or Lease

Word Count:
369

Summary:
Reconditioned equipment can be an affordable way for a company to use a better brand or move up to a more appropriate model.  But make sure you get equipment that has been reconditioned to the manufacturer’s standards.


Keywords:
Xerox Equipment, parts, suplies, canon, kodak, NexPress, docutech, docucolor, docuPrint, document center, buying or selling, leasing, renting, high volume printers and copiers, buying high-volume equipment, purchasing, CanAm Imaging Inc, Xerox Parts, Xerox Service Value Reseller, Reconditioned Equipments, refurbished, re used, re-used,previously owned, lease, rent, buy, sell, company, reconditioned Xerox equipment


Article Body:
Fortunately there are a few equipment manufacturers in the world whose products are so well made, you can trust a reconditioned model to be a cost effective way of getting all the features and performance of a new model.  The advantage for businesses like yours is you have the opportunity to buy, rent or lease premium brand equipment at non-premium brand prices.

Xerox builds its digital printer and copier equipment to the highest industry standards.  Their customer service is unrivalled.  The result is that previously owned Xerox printing equipment is among the most reliable equipment, new or used, available for purchase, rent or lease.

There is reliable reconditioned Xerox equipment available over their entire model range.  Whether you need digital printing presses for a large print shop, or a printer/scanner/copier for a small office, there are options for you to have Xerox equipment where you work. 

Just as there is a reconditioned Xerox machine to suit your purposes, there are financing options to suit your budget.  Whether you want to buy, rent or lease, you can find a plan that works to allow you to have a Xerox much more quickly than you thought possible.

A reconditioned Xerox machine also makes it easier for existing Xerox users to move up to a model with the features they need.  Even better, when they move up, they will be able to sell their old Xerox equipment and make the move more affordable.

The option to acquire reconditioned Xerox equipment is so popular, Xerox has set strict standards for the reconditioning process.  Your Xerox-approved reconditioned machine, whether purchased, leased or rented, can be covered by Xerox’s machine service agreements.

Not every reconditioned Xerox reseller meets Xerox’s standard for reconditioning.  You need to be careful that the reconditioned Xerox equipment you get for your company is from a Xerox-approved reconditioning specialist.

CanAm imaging is committed to being your supplier of choice for reconditioned Xerox imaging machines.  With a 40,000 sq. ft., reconditioning facility, we are able to offer you the Xerox machine you need with the financing option you want.  CanAm is a Gold Level Xerox Value reseller and our reconditioned Xerox imaging products exceeds Xerox’s standards for reconditioning.


