Title: 
RFID:  Asset Or Big Brother Further Invading Our Lives?

Word Count:
322

Summary:
Some of you have heard the new buzz word being bandied about these days. RFID, Radio Frequency Identification is hurtling towards us whether we like it or not.

What is RFID? Right now, it is an identification device used to track goods from place of manufacture to point of delivery. It is also used to track items as they are moved from place to place. The idea is to know where that item is at any point in time.

Seems harmless doesn’t it? How would you like RFID if a tag...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Some of you have heard the new buzz word being bandied about these days. RFID, Radio Frequency Identification is hurtling towards us whether we like it or not.

What is RFID? Right now, it is an identification device used to track goods from place of manufacture to point of delivery. It is also used to track items as they are moved from place to place. The idea is to know where that item is at any point in time.

Seems harmless doesn’t it? How would you like RFID if a tag was placed in your cell phone, in your car, in your shoes or even in your body? This is not farfetched … it is happening now. In fact, Big Brother will know where you are all the time.

This is not my idea of freedom. Ever sat down and watched the older movies of Eastern Europe where some military soldiers or KGB types stopped a person and wanted to see a person’s papers? How would you like to be one of those people that always were subject to search and seizure? It’s coming to a place near you … soon.

I can hear the argument now. “If you were doing what you are supposed to and were not engaged in something bad, they wouldn’t bother you.” Who defines what is bad? Do you think those people in Eastern Europe, China and other places are all up to no good? It’s not for you to decide. It is for the government agency watching you to decide. I am sure everyone reading this knows our governments have our best interests at heart.

Sure.

RFID could be a wonderful tool for mankind. Used properly, it can streamline commerce and make the world smaller.  That is not my concern. It’s the other things that it is being considered for that scares the heck out of me. It should scare you too.


