Title: 
Security System – The Way To Protect Your Home Or Business

Word Count:
328

Summary:
A security system is the key to protecting your home or business from intruders and burglars. Today security systems are increasingly popular and are installed in the majority of homes. There are many different models available from wired systems to wireless systems. You can also purchase do it yourself alarm systems that will range in price from $10 to $100, but for a sophisticated whole home security alarm system you will need to call in the experts.

A security system is...


Keywords:
security system, home security, commercial security


Article Body:
A security system is the key to protecting your home or business from intruders and burglars. Today security systems are increasingly popular and are installed in the majority of homes. There are many different models available from wired systems to wireless systems. You can also purchase do it yourself alarm systems that will range in price from $10 to $100, but for a sophisticated whole home security alarm system you will need to call in the experts.

A security system is built around a basic design concept and this concept uses a simple electric circuit. This circuit is built into an entry way and once the circuit is broken the alarm system is triggered. There are two types of circuits that are used and these are closed circuit systems and open circuit systems. Closed circuits are normally seen as the better choice.

Magnetic sensors are also used for closed circuit systems and when a door is closed the magnet closes the circuit. Other methods use small buttons which are embedded in the door frame and these buttons are pushed in when the door closes. If the door is opened the button is released and this will trigger the alarm.

The control box is the next most important piece of equipment used in security systems and these control boxes are normally located just inside your entrance door. Once your alarm system has been triggered you must enter your security code into the control box to disable the alarm.

The control box is also used to turn your alarm system on when you are leaving your home and is crucial to any security alarm system.

These are the key components to a security alarm system; sensors or circuit breakers and a control box. There are many additional components that can be used and these include motion detectors.

Whatever type of alarm system you decide to have installed in your home or business, it is always advisable to shop around before purchasing anything.


