Title: 
Share And Share Alike With New Flash-Based Media

Word Count:
408

Summary:
In a flash, new technology can change the way we capture, save and share memories and important data.


Keywords:
Share And Share Alike With New Flash-Based Media


Article Body:
In a flash, new technology can change the way we capture, save and share memories and important data. 

Consider the rapid evolution from floppy diskettes, to CDs, to USB flash drives. We are now able to store and transfer gigabytes of information onto devices the size of a thumb. 

However, when sharing digital content with colleagues or friends, sometimes we don't really need large capacities. According to a February 2006 study by ICR Market Research, about one-third of us share only a couple of files at a time. Floppies don't have the capacity to hold a five-megapixel digital photo, and floppy drives are quickly becoming obsolete. 

Flash drives are now one of the easiest ways to transfer files, but most are too high capacity-and too expensive-to be given away. Recently, flash technology providers have begun introducing affordable, lower-capacity alternatives. 

The newly released FlashDisc device is designed for sharing data, photos, business presentations and more between classmates, colleagues, friends and family. Students, for example, can share FlashDiscs in the classroom while collaborating on team projects. Professionals can use FlashDiscs to send presentations to clients. 

Here's how a typical FlashDisc, like ones sold by Memorex, compare to other modes of transferring digital content: 

&#8226; At 16MB, each FlashDisc features over 10 times the capacity of a floppy, holding up to 400 text documents, 10 presentations or 40 digital photos. 

&#8226; Though they don't hold as much information as CDs or DVDs, FlashDiscs don't require special hardware, software or expertise to use. 

&#8226; FlashDiscs offer the same plug-and-play convenience as flash drives, but they cost a fraction of the price, making them a more appropriate option for sharing content when you don't want to give up your 2GB flash drive. 

&#8226; Although sending e-mail attachments is a fast and easy way of exchanging files, many files are now just too large to be sent via e-mail, or, in some cases, attachments can be blocked by firewalls or other security settings. 

"FlashDiscs can be used virtually anywhere and are durable enough to toss in a briefcase or backpack without the need for a protective case," said Scott Elrich, director of product management, personal storage devices, Memorex. 

At 2.3 inches in diameter and a thickness of just 0.3 inches, the FlashDisc's thin, round design is durable and portable, like a floppy diskette. The device works with virtually any USB port on a PC or Mac. And like a floppy, FlashDisc includes adhesive write-on labels, something that you don't get with your typical flash drive.


