Title: 
Starting a web site – Steps to Success

Word Count:
433

Summary:
Starting a successful website isn’t an easy task and requires a fair amount of planning before beginning the project. Here are a few simple tips that will get you on your way!


Keywords:
web, web site, web host, reliable web host, get online


Article Body:
Starting a successful website isn’t an easy task and requires a fair amount of planning before beginning the project. Here are a few simple tips that will get you on your way!

What type of website?

There are many types of websites you can create; such as Blogs, forums, directories, and galleries! It’s best to create a website based around something you enjoy and know about.

If you are launching a business website it’s a good idea to speak with a web design specialist, a professional looking website is key to a business’s online success. Don’t be afraid to invest a little, you will reap the rewards.

Choosing a Web Host

A reliable web host is important no matter you websites purpose, downtime and technical issues turn away many visitors, and isn’t worth pain. Budget is important but don’t be fooled by the web hosts that are practically giving their services away, they are often oversold and will result in problems with out a doubt.

Choose a web host that offers what you need at a reasonable market price, you will find the support level is often much higher as they can afford to pay quality staff.

Many web hosts offer the automatic installation of many great scripts such as content management systems, forums, galleries and much more!

Selecting your Domain Name

Ensure you get a domain name that matches your website! Have a think before you purchase, your web host will usually offer domain registration services bundled with your web hosting plan.

Getting Started

If you are unfamiliar with web design it’s a good idea to start a website based on some popular content management systems, you should find these options and software packages available in your web hosting control panel.

Install and become familiar with their operation.

Adding Content

Fresh, relevant content is important to any websites success; it will keep visitors coming back. Starting a forum is hard so it’s a good idea to get your friends / associates in on the project to generate some discussion.

Promote your website

It’s a good idea to get your link out there, submit to the search engines, and link from websites you visit. Once you are listed in the search engines your quality content should naturally draw users.

For business websites paid promotion is a great way to generate business leads.

Following these steps is a great way to ensure your websites success; no project is easy so with a little work you can have a popular (and profitable) website of your own!


