Title: 
Stopping Spyware From Stopping You

Word Count:
411

Summary:
Spyware can be a real time waster. It makes its way onto your machine, usually without you knowing it, and eventually becomes a problem which causes you stress, costs you time and money and possibly leads to even worse consequences if not dealt with quickly. Learning how to eliminate spyware before it becomes a problem is critical for every computer user today. 

Spyware is written with the intent to intercept or take partial control of your computer without your informed c...


Keywords:
spyware,spy ware,virus,scanner,Trojan Horse,Worm


Article Body:
Spyware can be a real time waster. It makes its way onto your machine, usually without you knowing it, and eventually becomes a problem which causes you stress, costs you time and money and possibly leads to even worse consequences if not dealt with quickly. Learning how to eliminate spyware before it becomes a problem is critical for every computer user today. 

Spyware is written with the intent to intercept or take partial control of your computer without your informed consent or knowledge. While the name suggests it is created to simply spy on you, spyware also refers to software that subverts the operation of your computer for the benefit of someone else. While the motivations of those who write software like this is beyond the scope of this article, it is important to at least understand that spyware certainly does not exist for your benefit and you should take regular steps to remove it. 

By using a simple spyware scanning program, detection and removal of spyware is generally a quick and painless process. Instead of waiting for the results of spyware on your computer to become a problem, run a spyware scanner at a regular schedule to find and eliminate spyware software that has found its way on your computer. It typically is something you can start and leave running on your computer without any intervention on your part. If you look at it this way, keeping your computer safe, and operating at its best shouldn't take more than 5 minutes of your time a week! 

New spyware is created constantly and your spyware scanning software should have a simple way to check for updated information to detect the latest threats. Again, this process is usually automatic and should require very little intervention on your part. Be sure to choose the option to check for updates in your spyware scanner before you scan your computer. This simple two step process will help ensure that you are always free from the latest threats. 

It is unfortunate that it is necessary to deal with threats like spyware, adware, viruses and Trojan horses, but it is a simple reality. Fortunately there are excellent programs out there that will work to protect you from these threats and allow you to focus on the fun, enjoyment and utility your computer should offer you. By taking a few, regular steps to maintain your computer you will keep it running better longer. Just like a well-maintained car.


