Title: 
T-Mobile Sidekick: Chip Off The Old Block

Word Count:
562

Summary:
T-Mobile is one of the leading cell phone service providers in the US. It has become a popular operator thanks to its customer-friendly payment scheme. T-Mobile has come up with many innovative schemes to retain its top position in the US market. One of such initiatives is the marketing of the T-Mobile Sidekick. The Sidekick is a multipurpose phone, with great messaging, browsing, and gaming options. 

The Sidekick marketing initiative put T-Mobile in the top spot in the US...


Keywords:
tmobilie, t mobile, tmobile sidekick


Article Body:
T-Mobile is one of the leading cell phone service providers in the US. It has become a popular operator thanks to its customer-friendly payment scheme. T-Mobile has come up with many innovative schemes to retain its top position in the US market. One of such initiatives is the marketing of the T-Mobile Sidekick. The Sidekick is a multipurpose phone, with great messaging, browsing, and gaming options. 

The Sidekick marketing initiative put T-Mobile in the top spot in the US cellphone market. Now it has launched the T-Mobile Sidekick II, an improvement on the original Sidekick. 

T-Mobile Sidekick II retails at T-Mobile stores and can be used with the Sidekick data plan from T-Mobile. Apart from the run-of-the-mill cellphone functions, T-Mobile Sidekick II allows you to use sounds and pictures to communicate with your friend and family with its MMS or multimedia messaging service. The in-built camera puts more fun into messaging when using Sidekick Ii. 

The Sidekick II’s AOL Instant Messenger application allows you to IM your friends anywhere. T-Mobile’s application download service can enable you to download Yahoo’s messenger service too. Another cool Sidekick II feature is the Auto Text word completion system which makes it easier to enter words and text on to your handset. It’s a very convenient feature to have if you are a power user of mobile email and text messaging. You can also have email from up to three of your personal accounts pulled in directly into your Sidekick II. With Sidekick II’s embedded browser, you can browse the Web easily. Also, you are just a fingertip away from the latest news headlines, weather updates, games, and ringtone downloads with T-Mobile’s t-zones service. 

The Sidekick has many other useful features. It’s got a calendar with up to 1000 event entries, an alarm to remind you of the calendar events you’ve stored, and a to-do list. You can synchronize these tools with Microsoft Outlook through the Sidekick II’s USB data connection or wirelessly through Intellisync technology. The Intellisync Web-based application runs on any PC with a Web browser. With Intellysinc, you can view all photos on Sidekick II as in a photo gallery on your PC. All data is stored remotely. 

With the T-Mobile Sidekick II you can send and receive virtual contact cards or vCards. With vCards, you can save and share contact information with friends. The Sidekick II also has a mini-LED flashlight. The Sidekick II also enables you to snap photos and share them with friends through messaging or email or the Intellysinc gallery. The camera also has a night mode for good shots in low light situations. 

If you are a gaming fan, the game Rock and Rocket is available with the T-Mobile Sidekick II. You can also download more games through the t-zones service. The handset, running on GSM/GPRS 900/1800/1900 frequencies, is powered by a lithium ion battery which provides 4.5 hours of digital talk time, and 60 hours of digital standby. It has an internal memory of 48 MB. 

Loaded as it is with so many cool features, the T-Mobile Sidekick II seems pretty awesome -- much like a Swiss Army knife. But it seems even that isn’t the end of the road. It’s widely rumored that the US cellphone market will soon have to admit a new entrant, the T-Mobile Sidekick III, before Christmas!


