Title: 
The Dell Corporation - A Technician's Review

Word Count:
327

Summary:
The Dell computer has become a fixture in enterprises all over the world. From the days when they were assembled in a university dorm room, to the mass production of today, Dell has been one of the most successful computer manufacturers.


Keywords:
dell, corporation, hardware, warranty, replacement, IBM, technicians


Article Body:
The Dell computer has become a fixture in enterprises all over the world. From the days when they were assembled in a university dorm room, to the mass production of today, Dell has been one of the most successful computer manufacturers. 		

I work as a computer technician in a big organization that supports almost 5000 end-users. Our daily tasks can become overwhelming at times. Especially when our network goes down or one of our servers dies. 	

One thing we do not have to worry about is hardware problems. Most of our PCs are from Dell, the newer ones being the Optiplex GX620. Whenever we have a hardware failure in a Dell machine, we simply log on to their website, submit a form, and the next day our part arrives. We can do all of our warranty replacements without even having to speak to a customer service representative on the phone. 

Working in a corporate environment that requires near 100% uptime, brings the need for service like that of Dell. The less time we (technicians) can spend worrying about tracking a piece of hardware, in transit, the more we can focus on our job at hand. I guess I am biased, a little, because of the service that we do get from Dell. But there is nothing better to a technician than readily available hardware replacements. 

We also deal once and a while with IBM (Lenovo). I can’t say that I am as enthusiastic about their service. Every time we have to replace a part in an IBM machine, they feel the need to dispatch a technician. This is frustrating, after all, most of us are just as certified (or maybe even more so) than these technicians. 

Regardless of who you and your company deal with, make sure that you when you bring a new vendor onboard, you take a good look at their support services. The better support you have the smoother the technician’s job will be.


