Title: 
The Cost To Rent A Laptop Computer

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Laptop computer rental prices vary by length of time, location, specification and product availability. Monthly computer rentals cost less per day than daily rentals. Typically desktop computers rent for less money than notebook or laptop computers.

Period of Time – Daily, Weekly and Monthly Rates

"Monthly rentals typically are around $225, but still dependent upon specification, availability and delivery location."

In most places, computer rental rates are based on ...


Keywords:
computer rental


Article Body:
Laptop computer rental prices vary by length of time, location, specification and product availability. Monthly computer rentals cost less per day than daily rentals. Typically desktop computers rent for less money than notebook or laptop computers.

Period of Time – Daily, Weekly and Monthly Rates

"Monthly rentals typically are around $225, but still dependent upon specification, availability and delivery location."

In most places, computer rental rates are based on daily, weekly and or a monthly rates. Tech Travel Agents, who book computer rental reservations worldwide, report that Pentium 4 desktop computer rentals start at approximately $149 per week in most markets in the United States and Canada. Based upon computer specification, availability and location required, prices can be 20% to 35% lower or higher.

Delivery Location: Office Building or Convention Center

Business address deliveries are generally less expensive than delivering to a convention center. Often business addresses have close-in parking and easy access to the delivery / install area. A convention center complex requires a concerted effort from both the rental company and the company receiving the equipment at the convention center. Often convention center deliveries are more time consuming and costly to deliver, install and pickup afterwards.

Computer Rental Unit Specification

Normally a laptop computer rental consists of an Intel Pentium 4, Computer running Windows XP. Standard RAM is 256 to 512mb, 30gb or larger hard drives. Higher computer specifications cost more to rent. For example: if you require advanced graphic cards, more ram, a different operating system or software installed, computer rental rates will increase.

Be sure to include your computer specification, delivery location and date/time:

Intel Centrino Wi-Fi Wireless Laptop with Microsoft Windows
Intel Pentium 4 High Value Desktop Computer Rental

Technology Rental Equipment is a Commodity subject to Market Forces

Supply and demand issues come into play in the computer rental business too. Supply can be affected by the number of competitors and total computer rental units (known as a rental pool) in a given market area. Having a Tech Travel Agent book your technology rental needs means you will always get the equipment you need. You are not dependent on one single equipment vendor. Tech Travel Agents obtain equipment via large technology pools from multiple sources across the US, Canada and Europe.

Upgrade to Large Plasma Display Rentals

This century, the rental industry is more complex and dynamic than last. New product innovations such as 82” plasma flat screen displays, and dual core processors, are available for rent. More complex products mean better corporate events. If you are still using an old notebook to run your PowerPoint presentation, consider stepping up to the most modern technology with products from computer rental firms. 

Rent for Projects and Save

Renting is perfect for companies hiring temporary employees, attending conferences, tradeshows, providing computer training and engaged in accounting/finance projects. These companies realize lower costs, less use of capital, and no maintenance and write-off expenses.

Relax, let your Tech Travel Agent handle it!

Enjoy your trade show, conference or training program.


