Title: 
The Benefits Of CD Duplication

Word Count:
314

Summary:
CD duplication is the means of making several duplicates of CD’s of various types without doing a replication of many. It is used to describe the need and use of short run quantity copying of various types of CDs. Most duplication is done for quantities under 500. The value of these duplications is high, in that the sound quality is very good and matches its original quality. 

The Benefits: 

There are many benefits to CD Duplication including the following: 

• It is ...


Keywords:
CD duplication


Article Body:
CD duplication is the means of making several duplicates of CD’s of various types without doing a replication of many. It is used to describe the need and use of short run quantity copying of various types of CDs. Most duplication is done for quantities under 500. The value of these duplications is high, in that the sound quality is very good and matches its original quality. 

The Benefits: 

There are many benefits to CD Duplication including the following: 

• It is less expensive to do CD duplication than it is to do a full replication run especially when the need is much lower. 

• Often times, in a replication run there will simply be a minimum amount that is more than is needed. Using CD duplication can help to eliminate this extra replication. 

• And, believe it or not, it can be much faster to use CD duplication rather than a full CD replication run. 

But, there are some things that can cause a second take as well. In many cases, CD duplication can cost more per CD than that of a full run. But, in the long run, this still may be much lower. Also, not all will look like an original either. Some will have blue or black burn marks on them that make them look as if they are duplicates. 

Never the less, CD duplication is a commonly used system of replicating CD’s effectively. Technology is always improving so look for updates in the quality of the CD duplication systems as well.

There are also many information portals now devoted to the subject and we recommend reading about it at one of these. Try googling for “cd duplication” and you will be surprised by the abundance of information on the subject. Alternatively you may try looking on Yahoo, MSN or even a decent directory site, all are good sources of this information.


