Title: 
The Skinny On LCD Monitors

Word Count:
506

Summary:
There are advances being made in science and technology everyday, and a good example of this is the LCD monitor. LCD monitors have several benefits over the old chunky computer monitors that most users are familiar with. Old computer monitors, take up quite a bit of desktop space, put out a ton of heat, drain a ton of energy, and most often have low picture quality and resolution. Modern advances with the LCD computer monitors have changed a lot of that. The screen itself is ...


Keywords:
lcd monitor


Article Body:
There are advances being made in science and technology everyday, and a good example of this is the LCD monitor. LCD monitors have several benefits over the old chunky computer monitors that most users are familiar with. Old computer monitors, take up quite a bit of desktop space, put out a ton of heat, drain a ton of energy, and most often have low picture quality and resolution. Modern advances with the LCD computer monitors have changed a lot of that. The screen itself is flat, and very thin, needing very little desktop space, therefore giving you more room while working at your PC. A big advantage in my opinion is that LCD monitors don’t put off all the heat that the old monitors do. Those old monitors could quickly heat up a room, especially if you have more than one in the same space. LCD monitors require very little energy, making your wallet a little fatter by avoiding high energy bills. LCD monitors also reduce the glare, making them a better choice for gamers, and anyone who spends a lot of time in front of their computer.

A big problem with the old monitors, other than the obvious, is that if you forget to use a screensaver, images left on the screen will actually burn into the screen, which can affect picture quality, not to mention the fact that screensavers are just flat out annoying.

LCD monitors also tend to be less expensive on repair costs as well. They have less parts inside them to break, therefore saving you money in the event of a problem. Many people who have CRT monitors will just opt to buy a new monitor when something goes wrong, because it is often cheaper than trying to repair the problem, again saving you money.

As with any major purchase, it is important to do some research and shop around before making a final selection. Many people are often thrown off by the price of LCD monitors, but they are a good investment in the long haul of things. The good thing is that LCD monitors are quickly gaining popularity, so dealers have to work harder to keep their prices competitive, which puts the consumer at an advantage. Before going shopping, you should decide what type/brand of LCD monitor you need, and know the average cost of that particular monitor, so that you can get the best overall deal. You should also have in mind what size monitor will best suit your needs, which will narrow down your search once you are actually at the store to make your purchase.

Purchasing any kind of new technological gadgetry can be a daunting task, but if you arm yourself first with good research and planning, purchasing an LCD monitor should be an easy decision. If you spend as much time in front a computer screen as most people do, an average of 3 hours a day or more, you will be thankful that you made the decision to purchase an LCD monitor.


