Title: 
To Download or Not To Download

Word Count:
469

Summary:
The dilemma facing many new Iphone owners is whether they should download games to play on it or should they just use the built in web browser to play online browser games.


Keywords:
download iphone games, iphone movies, iphone music


Article Body:
The dilemma facing many new Iphone owners is whether they should download games to play on it or should they just use the built in web browser to play online browser games. The biggest argument is the fact that there are far more games available to download than there is to play online. Read on for more information.

In most cases, if all you are looking to do is pass the time it can be worthwhile to just use the online games. Even if you aren't aware of them, it's very simple to find playable browser games – a quick internet search will usually reveal hundreds if not thousands of them.

This is obviously good news, but the downside is that the online games are usually inferior in quality to the games you would download. Also, you will need to be in an internet service area to be able to play them. This can cause problems if you are travelling on a bus or train or something, as the signals can easily be dropped in these circumstances, which means the game goes byebye!

On the bright side, downloading Iphone games does not need to be as expensive as you may first imagine. Granted, it can be expensive, but if you can find some of the better sites around, you'll find there's a wealth of games and things available for you to download for free.

This sounds great, but it can be a little dangerous if you aren't well prepared, so check out these guidelines first:

1-First of all, steer clear of the Peer 2 Peer or file sharing sites. Downloading from sites like this is illegal in many countries and territories, so if you do feel the need to visit them be sure to check your local laws and regulations. It's never been easier for the authorities to trace downloads etc, so don't break the law unless you want to go to jail.

2-Keep your computer safe- actively downloading files and games etc can be a great way to get it stuffed full of viruses and dangerous software, so it's important to make sure your security suite is up to date and working correctly. You won't be downloading anything if you ruin your computer!

3-The last tip is to be prepared to pay for access. Some of the better sites will charge you an admin fee before they give you access to their download database. This sounds bad, but it will give you access to their MP3s and movies as well as games, so it usually represents excellent value, as their libraries are large and your downloads are usually uncapped.

As you can see, downloading anything to your Iphone can be dangerous and can easily ruin your computer if you aren't careful. Hopefully these guidelines will help you stay safe.


