Title: 
Top 7 Advantages Of Autoresponder Services

Word Count:
377

Summary:
By paying a modest monthly fee, you can have unlimited, sequential autoresponders working for you. Here are seven advantages of using paid autoresponder services.

1. Sequential Autoresponders

Although many web hosts offer unlimited autoresponders, each autoresponder is only capable of sending one response. With the use of sequential autoresponders from a paid autoresponder service you could, for example, send a seven-part e-mail course.

2. Build Customer Relationship...


Keywords:
AUTORESPONDER SERVICES, UNLIMITED AUTORESPONDERS, SEQUENTIAL AUTORESPONDERS, AUTORESPONDERS


Article Body:
By paying a modest monthly fee, you can have unlimited, sequential autoresponders working for you. Here are seven advantages of using paid autoresponder services.

1. Sequential Autoresponders

Although many web hosts offer unlimited autoresponders, each autoresponder is only capable of sending one response. With the use of sequential autoresponders from a paid autoresponder service you could, for example, send a seven-part e-mail course.

2. Build Customer Relationships

Building business relationships with paid autoresponder services can increase your sales. Marketing experts generally seem to agree that a person needs to be exposed to your message multiple times before they respond or buy. If someone subscribes to your autoresponder because of their interest in a subject, you can then supply them with helpful information on a regular basis. Thus, you establish trust and a relationship with your prospective customers. When they trust you, they are more likely to act on your recommendations and buy from you.

3. Tracking Capabilities

The built-in tracking capabilities of paid autoresponder services can lead to more effective advertising campaigns. You can track all the clicks made from your newsletters and autoresponders and can even run split tests to see which ads or offers appeal to your subscribers.

4. Deliverability

Paid autoresponder services cultivate relationships with major Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and online services. It is in their (and your) best interests that your e-mails get through and they work very hard to achieve high deliverability. Some services supply a spam test to show you how spam filters would rate your e-mail. If your spam rating is too high, you can edit your e-mail to improve deliverability.

5. Protection from False Accusations of Spam

Since all e-mails you send using a paid autoresponder service are hosted on their servers, you are insulated from false accusations of sending spam (unsolicited commercial e-mail).

6. Compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act

As well, compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 (Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, United States Public Law 108-187) is ensured by the paid autoresponder services. They make sure that legally required information is sent on each e-mail sent.

7. Flexibility and Scalability

You are not limited to one website with a paid autoresponder service. Create unlimited autoresponders and newsletters on multiple domains. Your monthly fee doesn't change as your business grows.


