Title: 
Virtual IT: Grow your business by providing ongoing service

Word Count:
390

Summary:
Virtual IT: why providing this ongoing service will help increase your bottom line. You can grow your business and improve customer relationships by providing Virtual IT.


Keywords:
Virtual IT


Article Body:
Virtual IT: How It Can Benefit Your Business

Most successful small business computer consultants position their companies as virtual IT departments? Why? Because providing virtual IT to your customers gives you steady business. In this article, you'll learn why providing virtual IT to your clients can benefit both you and your customers.

What is Virtual IT?

Virtual IT is really all about becoming your clients' outsourced IT department. So instead of just selling your customers and clients PCs, servers, routers, Wi-Fi, cabling, and other physical products, you instead spend your time selecting and designing their networks, looking at business problems, figuring out how to apply the technology to business problems, and bringing all the resources together. With virtual IT, your firm acts as your clients' part-time IT managers or virtual CIO's.  

Virtual IT is a convenient, flexible, and comprehensive technical services program that gives small businesses access to what they need, when they need it-without the overhead burden of full-time, salaried IT staff.

How can you provide virtual IT to your clients? 

For you to deliver virtual IT successfully and profitably, you need to know what the opportunities and the typical solutions look like. For example:
·	What are the traditional types of services that you can sell to your existing clients and your future clients? 
·	What other opportunities exist? 

Virtual IT grows your relationships.  

Continue adding value to both your existing customers and clients, and new customers and clients. That's what it's really all about. It's not about just selling the initial network installation, getting it installed, walking out of there, and keeping your fingers crossed that everything works. 

Don't sit around waiting for your customers to call you. Be proactive: provide virtual IT on an ongoing basis and you and your clients will avoid most major emergencies. By providing virtual IT, your business will be more profitable and both you and your customers will experience fewer headaches. 

The Bottom Line about Virtual IT
In this article, you've been introduced to virtual IT. To learn more about virtual IT, click here now <http://www.computerconsultingkit.com> to get access to a free one-hour audio training program on 5 Easy Ways to Grow Your Computer Consulting Business. <http://www.computerconsultingkit.com>

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consultants Secrets. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


