Title: 
Why Use External IT Support?

Word Count:
339

Summary:
Large businesses require a lot of IT infrastructure and a department to look after it. Small businesses often can’t afford to have that sort of internal support in place, yet they need fully operational IT systems in order for the business to run properly. For businesses like these, external IT support can be a cost-effective yet vital resource.

1. Avoid IT salary bills

Even one experienced, trained IT professional can cost a lot of money. Paying a salary, tax, National...


Keywords:
IT, IT support, computer support, IT services


Article Body:
Large businesses require a lot of IT infrastructure and a department to look after it. Small businesses often can’t afford to have that sort of internal support in place, yet they need fully operational IT systems in order for the business to run properly. For businesses like these, external IT support can be a cost-effective yet vital resource.

1. Avoid IT salary bills

Even one experienced, trained IT professional can cost a lot of money. Paying a salary, tax, National Insurance, pension and any other benefits can make a big difference to your bottom line. For small businesses, there just isn’t enough IT requirement to justify employing someone to run the system full-time. Instead, put your money towards your business, and pay a lot less for an external IT professional to help you when you need it.

2. Online and telephone support

If you haven’t got support in the office, you need to know that there’s someone on the end of the phone that can help with any IT problems that arise. Most IT support firms offer phone and online support and, because many problems can be sorted out over the phone, you won’t have to wait for an engineer to come out to your office.

3. Security

Some of the most important parts of your IT system are the ones that protect you from fraud, virus or other harm. Any software that’s protecting your system needs checking and updating on a regular basis, to make sure that your business is secure. Rather than scheduling this in for someone in your office to do, it’s much easier to arrange for an external IT company to come in to your office on an agreed timetable to keep your IT security up-to-date.

Using IT support has many benefits, but for small businesses, the most important thing is that external IT support allows you to concentrate on your business, whilst retaining confidence in your IT systems – and at a much lower cost than employing your own IT expert.


