Title: 
Window-Dressing: How to make your own wallpaper

Word Count:
524

Summary:
Gone are the days of limited mobile phone customisation, when all the possible modifications come with the cellular phone package as it is bought, or have to be bought separately at the store.


Keywords:
ringtones, cell phone wallpapers, cell phone screensavers 


Article Body:
Gone are the days of limited mobile phone customisation, when all the possible modifications come with the cellular phone package as it is bought, or have to be bought separately at the store. Aside from the many stylish accessories out in the market, such as cellular phone covers, casings, and straps, you can also make use of ring tones, screensavers, and wallpapers to personalise your phone’s interface. Due to the increased connectivity and additional functions of newer models, it is quite easy to make your cellular phone screen appear just the way you like it. 

Nowadays, your cell phone wallpaper can match your every mood. To personalise the look of your phone screen, the wallpaper in particular, you can choose between the files already provided in your cellular phone, and the many phone wallpaper size photos found on different Internet sites. One such site is www.ringtones.lt, where you can find wallpapers of popular animation characters, celebrities, sports cars, athletes, movie stills, and more. Of course, you can also make your own, and it should not cost a lot. After all, it’s the best way to guarantee that your mobile looks as different as can be.

Ready to make your own customised wallpaper? Here’s how:

If your cellular phone is equipped with a camera, the pictures taken with it are often ready to use as wallpapers. Therefore, the most up-to-date wallpaper is merely a click away. Take pictures with it—lots of pictures! Not only will it provide you with a wide selection of wallpaper images, the practice will also help develop an artistic flair in you. This way, you will be able to take better pictures and find better subjects to take pictures of, whether or not you have had training in photography. You can also make sure of it by finding simple photography tips from online sites and forums, and applying a certain style that you find interesting. 

You can keep the photo wallpapers interesting by using the pictures you took during rare trips or a vacation in a faraway land. Some exciting subjects are festivals, odd-looking animals, extreme games stunts, and maybe your first hot-air balloon ride. On the other hand, you need not look farther than your very own backyard to be able to take worthy photos. Some examples are pets, the sunrise or sunset as it is seen through your window, portraits of your loved ones, a flower blooming in your garden, and your favorite food served on a decorative plate. Meanwhile, for the most unique wallpaper, you can just go ahead and take pictures of yourself. 

For those who are more skilled in design and the use of design software, you may also try drawing your own wallpaper using your computer. Be sure to check the image size and type of file that is compatible with your unit. You can then upload it to your mobile phone using Blue Tooth or a USB connection. 

While your phone screen is quite small, remember that there are no limits to the modifications you can do. All you need to do is imagine, then create the picture.


