Title: 
Would You Be Happy About Paying Twice as Much for Laser Toner Cartridges?

Word Count:
479

Summary:
Most people pay twice as much for laser toner cartridges as they should. You don’t have to sacrifice quality or quantity of print to get a super deal on toner cartridges.


Keywords:
laser toner cartridges


Article Body:
It's a fact. Laser toner cartridges are not cheap. In fact, over the expected five year life expectancy of your laser printer, you'll pay much more for toner than you will for your laser printer. Now, if your laser printer lasts longer than five years, which many do, you'll pay even more. The good news is you don't have to pay so much.

Major printer companies market use an interesting marketing model to market their products. They sell you their laser printer at cost or less, so they can sell you their consumable supplies at very high margins. Once you own a laser printer, they figure you'll have to buy their toner cartridges... hence, they have a huge mark up on them. In most instances, you'll pay twice as much for a brand name toner cartridge.

But, they don't stop there. They spend thousands of dollars each year trying to convince you to buy their toner cartridges. They imply you'll have problems if you purchase a discount toner cartridge. That's completely false.

I've purchased discount toner cartridges for over fifteen years. Here's my experience.

To begin with, I really didn't want to buy a discount toner cartridge. I assumed I would have all kinds of problems. I was wrong. I also thought I'd get poor quality. Wrong again. I knew I wouldn't get as many pages of print. Well, they say three strikes and you're out... I was really wrong on this last one.

Here's what you need to know about high quality discount toner cartridges. They are made from all new parts. Reputable printer merchants use the same technology as the major printer companies. These discount cartridges are made to the exact specifications of your laser printer. You can expect to get at least a one-year warranty on your toner cartridges. They will give you the same quality and quantity of print as your original toner cartridge.

I was totally surprised when I was able to print more pages from my discount toner cartridge than I was from my original toner cartridge. I finally learned why. Most major printer companies do not completely fill their toner cartridges. The discount toner cartridges I bought were filled to capacity… I ended up paying half the price and getting even more pages of print. Now, I consider that a good deal!

I've saved thousands of dollars over the years using discount toner cartridges. You can too.

Just be sure you purchase your cartridges from a reliable online printer merchant. You'll save on the cost of your toner cartridges. You'll get the best service and warranty in the industry. You'll learn for yourself that you don't have to pay twice as much for your laser toner cartridges. 

So, if you need a new toner cartridge and want to cut way back on your printer budget, purchase some discount laser toner cartridges today.


