Car Valeting: Making Your Used Car Look like New

You just purchased your very own car from the used car lot. Although it may not be much to look at, you have to consider that it is a used car. You can't really expect to find something that sparkling and shiny in a used car lot would you?

Anyway, you got the car for a bargain and that's really enough for you. You have a car that is in working condition which will be able to take you wherever you want to go and it drives really nice. The only problem is, is that it lost that once glorious paint that you see before your eyes. You know that it could be better looking but you just don’t have the money to refinish the car paint as well as replace the leathers on the seats. You also have that damage on the chrome and very dusty and dirty interior as well as carpets that would make your mom take the bus instead of riding in your car.

However, have you ever thought that there is a way to make your car look like new without spending a lot of money?

With car valeting or detailing services, you will see that your car will regain its once brand new look. Although the condition of the engine as well as the mechanical parts will not work as it had before when it was brand new, you have to consider that it will be able to look like new and look as if it just came out of the showroom.

Whatever car you purchased in the used car lot, you will see that professionals working for car detailing or valeting services will be able to provide you with quality service and do their best to make your car stand out from the rest.

Car detailing or valeting is the practice of extremely thoroughly cleaning of an automobile. It will not only involve washing the car and waxing the exterior and hand polishing it with chamois, but it will involve a lot of procedures to really make your car look as if it is ready for a car show. In fact, most people with classic car don’t dare clean the car themselves. What they do is take the car to auto detailing or valeting companies to get it cleaned and get that show quality level of cleanliness and detail.

In car detailing or valeting, cleaning the exterior will involve claying, polishing and waxing. Claying is used to remove any contamination in the paint such as road grime, tar, dried bugs, tree sap and even paint that was sprayed over the original paint. Claying is basically getting your car ready for waxing and polishing.

In the interior of the car, cleaning will involve vacuuming, brushing and using shampoos and other liquid cleaners for the seats and carpets.

If you really want the full service, most car detailing or valeting services will even recondition the leather seats and carpets to look as if it is brand new.

The tires aren’t even left out. They will apply a chemical that will make the tire look blacker and cleaner

The engine will also be cleaned. It will be rid of dirt and grease and really show the detail of the engine.

When you want a clean car, then you will see that car detailing or valeting services will be able to provide you with the services that will definitely exceed your expectations without spending too much money.
