Car Valeting and Detailing: 3 Techniques

Auto valeting and detailing is among the budding and promising industry in the world today. Most car owners today allocate a significant budget for car maintenance. They not only want to maintain their car’s exteriors but also the interiors as well. Not all individuals have the time to attend to their car’s needs and so they leave the task to the car valeting and detailing services. 

The cleanliness of your car is very important. It reflects your personality and it reveals a great deal about you. If you don’t want to be judged wrongly, its time that you take your car to a car valeting and detailing service for thorough cleansing. If you have insufficient budget at the moment, you can simply have your car undergo exterior auto detailing because if your car is presentable on the outside, it could already do the trick. Next time you have extra money, you can take your car for interior auto detailing. 

Car valeting and detailing services offers three popular techniques. Read on and you will find out what these techniques are. 

1. Clay cleaning – this is the first technique that you should be familiar about. The clay used for this type of cleaning is an effective yet simple mixture of clay base and several abrasives. Paint contamination can be removed by mixing clay with clay lubricants. Clay bars can also remove common exterior car dirt, tree sap, road grime, bugs, tar, and rust.

You could say that the clay bars acts like detergent cleaners. The clay bars used for car valeting differ in color, composition, and density of active or chemical ingredients. The clay bars are also available in mild and heavy-duty wherein the mild clay bars are used for minor dirt or stains while the latter is used for heavy dirt and stains. The car valeting crew should know which appropriate clay bar to use in every situation to bring about the best results.  

2. Polishing – this is the second technique used by car valeting crews or technicians. Through polishing, contaminations, swirls, scratches, and other paint imperfections can be removed. With car polishes, the clearcoat is penetrated thereby carrying out intense cleaning. 

3. Waxing – this is the third technique but this is just simply the wrapping up of the first two techniques. This is the finishing process for auto detailing. Wax is available in creams, liquids, and pastes. The products used in waxing usually contain carnuba which have fatty acids which are quite helpful in enhancing the car’s appearance. It keeps the car surface protected from the harsh effects and contaminations from the environment. The wax also gives the car a neat and shiny finish.

So when you’re out looking for a car valeting and detailing shop, try to ask if the three services are being offered. Oftentimes, shops give special packages that the customers can choose from. 

There are also times when people try to do car detailing on their own. This is definitely a less costly alternative but you need to be very careful when choosing the products because it may damage your car. You should also follow all the cleansing instructions carefully to avoid any problems. 

For those who can afford the car valeting and detailing services, choose the shop where you will entrust your car. Now that you know the three techniques, you should be able to give your car the best treatment and care.    
