Car Valeting and Detailing – Franchising or Owning

Offering car valeting and detailing services these days can let you earn a great deal of money. A large percentage of the US population have their own cars since it is already a necessity nowadays. With a car, anyone can travel wherever he or she wants to go. Some individuals are too busy to care for their cars and so they turn to car valeting and detailing services. 

Car valeting and detailing will help any car owner to restore their car’s new look, from the inside to the outside appearance. Your car valet should employ only the experts in the field so that they can easily restore any kind of vehicle to superb condition. Services offered in the car valeting and detailing service depends on the owner of the business but it usually includes wash, vacuuming, and leather cleaning. Some service providers also give cars a sort of protection treatment so that the car will be protected from the normal wear and tear of everyday car use. 

Additional services are also provided by some car valeting and detailing like mini or full valet service and machine polishes. Mobile services are also quite popular these days wherein the car valeting and detailing service sends one of their crew to the location of the customer. The prices charged by the valeting and detailing services vary and it would depend on the service extended to the customer.    

Bigger car valeting and detailing companies also offer franchising and these companies help the franchiser in terms of financing, training, customer base, and even insurance. The franchiser will usually be given their own operations manual, uniforms, exclusive use of the logo of the company, marketing and advertising guidance, and the needed chemicals. If you take advantage of this franchising offer, the mother company may also provide the methods for operating practices as well as effective business strategies. 

Aside from the services mentioned earlier, a typical car valeting and detailing service can also offer bumper scruffs, paint repair, repair of trivial scratches, prevention for tire puncture, and dent removal. The business is not just about providing service but it is also about educating their clients on how to properly maintain their car’s appearance. Their crew will always stress the importance of regular washing to prolong the vehicle’s paintwork. Regular waxing is also encouraged. If your car has marks, spots, stains, or any other cleaning problem, you will simply take your car to the car valeting service and everything will be put back into place. 

With so many customers to serve, anyone who owns a car valeting and detailing service will make great profits. However, business owners should still consider their location, their employees, their fees or charges for the service, and quality of their services. If you’re starting out, it would be best to franchise from a much bigger car valeting and detailing company especially if you have limited capital and you have little know-how about the business.

The mother company will provide you with almost everything you need, except for the location of course. But you need to work doubly hard. On the other hand, if you put up your very own car valeting and detailing business, you will know all the aspects of the business so you need to research a lot about the various services offered by car valeting.

It’s up to you to decide which business road to take.     
