Car Detailing Tips: How to Wash-Dry your Car

It’s a weekend! How good it is to wash your car and detailing it at the same time. Through washing, you can remove certain residues that came in contact with your car. You would be amazed how much dirt is stacking up on your car’s interior and exterior. Washing is like bathing, however, you can do car bathing for just once or twice a month and that would be sufficient enough. All car detailing processes starts with washing your car then all others will follow. You can’t put on new clothes and perfumes without bathing yourself now, can you? Well for some people it is, but it's not really the way to go. 

How do you go about with the proper washing techniques of your car? Read on…

1. Rinse.
Rinsing will be done at the start and at the end of you bathing the car. You have to thoroughly rinse your car in order to wash away some removable dirt and those that have stacked up will be softened. Use a hose with overflowing water but be sure that the stream is not that harsh enough to hurt your car or gentle enough that it will not reach your aim. Harsh streams of water can also be the cause of car scratch that is why excessive pressure of water is not advised. Detailers would prefer the water to flow freely from above the car or out of the hose with having to use a nozzle.

2. Detergent use.
When “soaping” your car, make sure that you use the kind of detergent that is specially meant for your car and not just what you use in your kitchen or in your bathroom. Don’t use dishwashing soap or liquid because these things are all too strong which will contribute to your car’s scratches and will strip off its wax.

3. Mix it.
In a simpler context, that is all there is to it. After preparing your equipments and tools, you can now mix your detergent according to the instructions of the manufacturer. Dip your mitt or sponge into the bucket of water that holds the mixed solution. Before doing anything else, you have to follow these guidelines in order to promote safety of your car.

• Be generous on your water and detergent. You can use an average of 3 or 4 buckets of water for a small car and 5 to 6 buckets for a medium-sized car.

• Washing should be done in sections. Start on top. This will enable rinsing to be relatively easier. After doing the roof, you can proceed to the door, fender and other car sections. Be sure that you do thorough rinsing in between parts. After applying soap, you should rinse so that film will not develop. The suds will cause the soap to dry and make an ugly stain.

• Right after washing the sections, you have to wash or rinse the entire body of the car. Use generous amounts of water so that all the soap will be washed away thoroughly. Do not leave crannies, crevices, and nooks where soap can seep and hide. 

• If you’re not satisfied with the first wash, then do it the second time around. It is better to see acceptable results than settle for what is done. It is not bad to wash the second time because in detailing the first washing is just your way of introducing cleaning.

First washing has taken care of the majority of the dirt that is seen and the second will do the rest of the dirt. That is what good car detailing is all about.
