Detailing your Car Wheels

In order to effectively detail your car, you have to know the categories first. There is the non-painted wheel and the painted one. Both of these wheel categories have one thing in common and that is have a brake dust. There is no way that dust can be an exemption. Even the most expensive car is not exempted from acquiring as much dust as there is. 

Brake dust is something that is responsible for coating the outside portion of your wheel and goes to detracting appearance. Sources of brake dust are the part that is close to it which is the brake pads. When these pads wear off, they become the dust that coats the brake. Fear not, for there is a solution to these pesky brake dusts. Special cleaners meant for wheels are very much available in automobile stores which are designed to extract brake dusts and are to be purchased accommodate non-painted and painted wheels.

Not sure about the paint of your wheels? You can take some polish, it should be the lighter one, then put it on the white towel, rub it on the area of your car’s wheel. If you see a black color from your rag, then you have a wheel that is non-painted which means its surface is made of metal. On the other hand, if you have see that your towel has the same color as your wheel, then it must be painted. If you don’t see any black but then again the wheel seems to have a metallic surface, there is a possibility that you have a wheel that’s clear coated. On encountering clear-coated wheels, you can just treat it the way you would treat painted wheels.

In case you have a wheel that is non-painted, you have to determine the kind of material that was used in order to use the appropriate cleaner. The treatment of the surface can make considerable difference which should not be disregarded. If you’re not sure about the requirements of different surfaces, you can consult the manual of factories which supplied your car with its wheels. 

It is more advisable that you separate your car’s surface washing from cleaning of your wheel. This will lessen or entirely avoid any kind of scratches because the tires and wheels tend to contain large amounts of dirt particles. If you use the same sponge or mitt, you can transfer the particles coming from the wheels to the surface paint of your car which, in turn, may cause scratches.

You have to keep in mind that wheels are the ones that get all the dirt and are considered as one of the dirtiest places of your car therefore, you have to give a more aggressive cleaning attention. If you clean your wheels in a separate manner, you can use a detergent that has a higher concentration which you should not use on the car’s actual surface because it will cause wax removal.

You have to make sure that all parts of the car are removed from the area to be able to effectively clean all parts. Washing the parts separately will give you a more efficient car detailing job. Be sure that you don’t lose the parts that you have removed to be able to put them back in proper places. And, try to remember the way you removed it in order for you to put it back on properly.
