Detailing Car Tips on Glass Cleaning

If cleaning glass is some sort of art, then you are lucky to have your self work that is also a form of creation. This puts things into perspective. Glasses that are dirty should be cleaned at once especially if it’s your car. It will be so obvious on your car’s window that you are experiencing problems. Car glass is considered as your friend especially when you’re on the road. It acts as your eyes through the long, winding road. 

There are varieties of glass cleaners that are available in the market which contains ammonia. Ammonia is a car cleaner ingredient that serves to be good in cleaning glasses. There are also glass cleaners that can be found inside your house that can be effective in cleaning. The ingredients for the recipe consist of: vinegar and water with a sprinkle of your car’s detergent. There is a more complex concoction which is composed of sudsy ammonia, dish washing detergent, a gallon of water, and 70% alcohol. 

Some detailers would insist that plain water is the best ingredient in cleaning your glass. Even collected rain can become the perfect solution for your glass cleaning. 

Thorough cleaning of glass can come in different processes. But before that, you have to make sure that you have every material needed are all laid out so that work can proceed smoothly. Now, down with the work…You can do this while you’re washing your car holistically.
 
Wash the glass with water and soap. Then, use the cleaner that you have chosen to clean both the exterior and interior of your glass. You have to be very particular in cleaning the inside of your car especially when it’s new. This supports the idea that interiors made of plastic releases materials which are gaseous which leaves a film in the inside of your car.

You can choose to use towels which are made of microfibers and see how it can make wonders for your technique in cleaning the glass. This material will also disable the thought of harming the surface of your windows and glass, leaving no scratch marks.

Lastly, like what people do after bathing, you have to dry the glass. Pass a clean piece of cloth inside and outside the car. Use a cloth either made of paper towel or cotton or a lint free rag without applying any kind of cleaner. If you opted to use towels made of paper, don’t choose the ones that have designs or prints on them because this may contribute to slight scratches on your car’s glass. While you are doing the dry passing, inspect your car’s glass carefully in different angles for missed imperfections and residues that you might have left out. If you have done a good job, you can eliminate the streaking.

Cleaning glass should never be done under direct heat or sunlight or if you have a “hot” car surface. Make sure that you have several towels in order to have a cleaner slate for every glass portion. Other detailers use newspapers to clean the glass because of the belief that it contains polishing properties. 

Your attention is always a must especially when attending to a do-it-yourself car detailing. You have to be sure that you are prepared to get “messed up” when cleaning your car. In this way, you can learn and maybe in the future, earn for what you know. 
