Spiffy Clean with Auto Detailing

The practice of thorough polishing, waxing and cleaning of a car in both the interior and exterior sides in order to produce a fixed quality detail level is called as auto detailing. It can be practiced as a sort of personal preference and satisfaction or can also be prepared for elegant cars which feature that appearance of every car. Different elements of auto detailing include waxing, polishing and claying.

When it comes to interior detailing, it usually involves overall cleaning of the car’s interior using brushers, vacuums and liquid cleaners. Detailing of engine involves the cleaning of the engine area from grease and dirt using all-purpose cleaners and degreasers.

Detailing and its Processes
There is really no specific guideline when it comes to detailing but what is sure is that it is considered as more comprehensive than just cleaning because of the different features that it sets out for a car owner. Detailing often involves a lot of steps more than washing. The main goal of detailing is mainly centered on the protection and beautification of the car.

Not only that, some are also focused on minor services like paint repairs and restoration of surface as well as complete cleaning in places of one’s car that is normally ignored just by ordinary cleaning like the underchassis,  tires, engine, trim and wheels. 

The sequence of detailing the exterior of the car paint is from wash, dry, polishing, glazing, sealant and waxing. Application of glaze is based on the person’s preference which is entirely optional and also with the application of both wax and sealant. The important thing is, cleaning is maintained at a satisfactory status. Shampoos, degreasers, polishes, protectants, waxes, cleaners and lubricants are developed through time to suit different demands of professionals and consumers.

Detailing can either be an individual habit or service. Polishing has different purposes like removing swirls, water deposits, scratches, oxidation and other paint imperfections. Whereas clay bars are used to remove any kind of contamination that can injure the car, polishing can remove imperfections on the car’s surface. Generally, polishing is considered as the most time consuming part of exterior detailing.

Typically, there are two categories of polishes: abrasive or chemical. Abrasive polishes can remove a smaller portion of the car’s clearcoart. Abrasive polishes can be classified based on the product’s abrasive properties. Rubbing Compound is considered as the abrasion that can remove swirls, heavily made scratches, and oxidation as well. It can be regarded as a refined piece of sandpaper. The lesser abrasion is known as finishing polish which is used to remove fine scratches and lighter swirls and oxidations. It is also used for the removal of haze that results in the application of an abrasive polish that has more abrasive contents.  

Sealants and Waxing Purposes
Polymer and sealants synthetically made are based which provide more durability than the carnauba wax. These are liquid which are applied in form which is similar to liquid wax. Waxing can further enhance the depth and gloss of paint and also provide a shorter yet lasting protection. Wax can come in numerous forms like paste, liquid and cream. Waxes may contain carnauba that contains large amounts of fatty acids.

These fatty acids create a solid layer in between the outside world and the paint which, on the other hand, protects the car and gives it a glossy finish. Waxes which are synthetic mix high amounts of ultraviolet rays and less amounts of cleaners which are regarded to as inhibitors to create the identical protective layer that the carnauba does.
