Valeting and Interior Car Detailing

Having a car these days is no longer considered a luxury. If you live in the US, it is a necessity to have a car. So when you already have a car, you need to take good care of it through the interior car detailing and car valeting. 

Let’s look into interior car detailing. This is not a very difficult task because you can do this yourself. To start of, check the carpets of the car. Try to remove all the stains on the car carpet using a brush and a stain remover. But before you remove the stain, you need to vacuum it first. For the mild stains, get a spray bottle and dilute the solution inside it.

Don’t spray too much so that mildew can be avoided. After the stains are removed, let the carpet dry completely. Don’t forget to clean the floor mats of your car. You can use a rigid or stiff brush to clean the floor mat and take it outside to dry completely.

Second, you can look into the upholstery. Vacuum all the car seats and if you find any stains, remove it just like how you removed the carpet stains. Leave the doors of the car open to dry the seats. 

Check the door jambs. You can use soapy solutions to clean the plastic and metal parts of the car door. Use a rag to dry the door jambs. If you find tougher stains, you can use brushes or Q-tips to remove it. 

The car windows should be cleaned with a glass cleaner using soapy solutions. Make sure that you dry the window thoroughly and erase streaks. 

The dashboard can also contain dirt and stains. Remember not to spray any cleaning solution or water on the dashboard of your car. Put cleaning solutions on the cleaning tools and then cautiously clean the buttons and knobs. Everything should be dried thoroughly.

So you see, interior car detailing is not as hard as you think. You can even do it yourself. There are also car kits that you can purchase if you want to do the task yourself. You can invest on the car kits and maintain the cleanliness of your car without paying for any detailing service. Some car detailing services charge high fees and so if you want to avoid such high fees, do the interior car detailing on your own. Just follow the steps mentioned earlier and your car will always look brand new. 

Car valeting is another service offered to car owners. If you need valet, you can simply contact the company that offers such service. Inquire at your local state business registry and you will be able to find the car valeting services available in your area. You can contact them by phone or if you want, you can visit their officeand take your car with you.Special occasions sometimes require your car to be more presentable and formal and perhaps a car valet can make your car appear like new again. 

Interior car detailing and valeting can be a DIY activity. Try it yourself and you will be more attached to your car. You will love every moment of it and you even brag about it to your friends… let them see how you care for your precious car. If you need to choose a car valeting and detailing service provider, make sure that you choose only the best.
