Change Your Driving Style to Conserve Gasoline

It seems as if the massive increase in gas prices over the last few years have had drivers everywhere trying to make sense of it all.  Why are the prices so high?  What can we do to save a bit of money at the gas pump?  While the first question is not so easy to answer, we have quite a bit of control ourselves over the second one.  After all, there are a number of relatively easy ways that we can conserve gas and therefore, make less frequent stops at the local gas station.  One of the easiest ways that you can increase your vehicle’s fuel efficiency without spending a dime is by making some simple tweaks to your driving style.

Most drivers are not thinking of fuel consumption when they decide what kind of driving style they will have.  In past years, that may have been a perfectly reasonable thing, but with the gas prices getting to be so high, we must all think about how we can reduce our gas usage.  After all, it is getting harder and harder to be able to afford frequent fill-ups at the gas station!  What follows are a few pretty basic ways that you can change your driving style to a more fuel efficient one.

One mistake that many drivers make is accelerating too often.  If you pay attention, you will notice that the vast majority of drivers accelerate almost all the time.  It does not matter whether they are 50 feet from a red light or a turn that they will have to slow down for, they will continue to have their foot on the gas right up until they have to brake.  This is a mistake for a number of reasons, all of which can affect fuel consumption.

First of all, it makes no sense to speed up towards a red light that you will have to stop for in a short distance.  Instead, why not take your foot off the gas and coast a bit?  This will not only allow you to save your brakes, but if the light changes, you can continue coasting until it is time to accelerate, and you may be able to do so without ever having to completely stop.  Your car will use a lot less gas starting from a coasting speed of 20 miles per hour than it would from a complete stop.  Again, the light is red anyway, there is simply no need to accelerate towards it.

If you have a turn coming up shortly, there is also no need to accelerate right up until the point where you must turn.  Why do so, when you will then have to brake aggressively in order to safely make your turn?  Instead, when you reach a close distance to your turn, take your foot off the gas pedal and coast a bit before slowly easing on the brake and making your turn.  Doing so will not cost you much time, and it will save gas as well as your brakes, both of which cost a fair amount of money.

Finally, try not to tailgate behind other drivers, and anticipate future stops or having to slow down.  If you give yourself a good amount of distance between yourself and the car(s) in front of you, you can see whether people are stopping or turning with much more notice, which allows you to coast a bit rather than having to slam on your brakes.  Again, you’re only wasting gas if you speed up to ride the car in front of yours’ rear bumper.  This is needless and can also be the cause of an accident!

These subtle tweaks to your driving style won’t cost you any time, and will save you a lot of gas and wear and tear on your car.  Also, if you drive less aggressively, you will accumulate less traffic tickets and accidents, which can cost you way more money than gas ever did!

PPPPP

Word Count 668
