Decrease Your Speed, Decrease Your Fuel Consumption

It is becoming a more and more painful experience to have to fuel up at the pump nowadays.  Gas prices have continued to rise with no sign of letting up.  It is sometimes hard to justify making extra trips or car rides, simply because you know that when you have to visit the gas station, it is going to seriously cost you.  Luckily, there are easy ways, such as slowing down your speed, that you can control your fuel consumption.  If you are willing to do such a simple thing as to ease off the gas pedal a bit, you can benefit with some seriously decreased fuel consumption.  This will lead to less money spent at the pump, and more money kept in your wallet!

There are many products on the market today that claim to help increase your fuel efficiency.  However, it makes little sense to spend money on a product that will supposedly save you money, right?  Fortunately, there are several very easy ways that you can save money spent on gas without having to pay for extra products in the process.  One of these ways is to simply ease up on the throttle a bit!  Let us discuss further this concept.

Various studies have indicated that going faster than 55 miles per hour, which is the speed limit on many highways anyway, can really cost you in fuel efficiency.  For instance, studies have shown that going 75 miles per hour can increase your fuel consumption by one-fifth, or even one-fourth, versus the amount of fuel you would consume by going twenty miles per hour slower.  As you can see, there is a lot of money to be saved by keeping your speed down when you drive on highways or other roads with a high speed limit.

If it seems like a real pain to have to take your foot off the gas and drive 55 miles per hour, keep in mind that it is a much better alternative than continuing to fork out excess money at the gas station!  It can be difficult to go at this speed, especially when people may be passing you left and right while going 10 or 20 miles per hour faster than you, but remember the fuel savings you will be experiencing!  Most of the time, unless your trip will take you further than 60 miles away, you will only be costing yourself five or ten minutes of extra driving time.  This is really a pretty small amount of extra time spent driving, when considering how much fuel you can save in the process.

If the idea of driving 55 miles per hour makes you feel as restless as Sammy Hagar, remember that you do not have to drive that slowly to realize the benefits of decreased fuel consumption.  Even if you slow down only five or ten miles per hour from your normal speeds, you will experience at least some savings.  If driving 55 miles per hour simply is not going to work for you, then simply try to drive as slowly as you can, and be mindful of the fuel consumption that excess speeds costs you.

Also, if you do frequently drive over 70 miles per hour in your car, you probably have had a few speeding tickets over the years to show for it.  Another useful benefit of easing up on the gas pedal is that you will not only save on fuel consumption, but you will also attract less attention from the “boys in blue”.  With speeding tickets being quite expensive themselves, it is important to note that you will save money in more than one area by driving a bit more slowly on the highway.  As you can see, there are plenty of reasons, including safety as well, that you should slow down a bit when you get on a highway.

PPPPP

Word Count 652
