How Maintaining Your Car Helps You Save Gas

If you drive even somewhat regularly, it is likely that you are as sick of high gas prices as the rest of us are.  However, there is very little that any of us can do to directly affect the price of gas, so we are forced to turn our attention to doing whatever we can to limit the amount of gas that we use.  You may or may not be aware that there are very easy methods for increasing the gas mileage you get in your car, van, truck or sport utility vehicle.  In fact, many of the ways that you can help your vehicle’s gas mileage are through simple maintenance that you should be performing on your vehicle anyway!

It is unfortunate that many who are attempting to escape high gas prices have turned to costly products that claim they can help your vehicle get more gas mileage.  Of course, it makes little sense to spend money in order to save money, particularly when these products are largely unproven to begin with.  That is why when you are trying to dramatically increase your vehicle’s gas mileage, it is better to stick to the more reliable, more basic methods instead.  These methods definitely include performing the regular maintenance that your car requires already.

Most drivers are fairly diligent about getting oil changes regularly for their vehicle.  After all, regular oil changes are among the most fundamental (and cheap) ways to maintain your vehicle’s performance and condition.  Many people do not know, however, that regular oil changes also help to limit fuel consumption!  That means that you will save money in the end, even if you have to spend money to perform an oil change or have one done for you.  Also, while you’re at it, make sure that your car is running on the appropriate grade of oil.  This can reduce your fuel consumption by one or two percent.

One of the better ways to easily increase your car’s gas mileage is also one of the easiest.  The next time you pull up to a gas station or car wash that has an air pump, check the air pressure in your tires and add air, if necessary.  At many gas stations or car washes, this will not cost you anything.  Even if the only machine you can find is a pay machine, it will still likely only cost you as much as fifty cents.  The price (or lack thereof) and simplicity of this method makes it a great way to help keep yourself away from the gas pump.

Another type of regular maintenance that your car requires consists of regular tune-ups.  Tune-ups help to ensure that your car is performing as well as it should be, including in respect to gas mileage.  Also, most tune-ups include a check of other important areas, which may reveal a problem with your car that is costing you valuable gas mileage.  Fixing many of these areas may result in drastically improved performance and gas mileage, so that is a side benefit of tuning your car, as well.

The vehicle maintenance that will net you the most improved gas mileage is definitely that of checking and replacing dirty, clogged air filters.  If your air filters are filthy, make sure to switch them out with clean, new ones right away!  Doing so can boost your gas mileage by one-tenth!  That is a pretty significant amount when you consider today’s unsavory gas prices.  Think about one-tenth of a gallon of gas where you live.  That’s how much you can expect to save, per gallon, if you drive with clean (rather than a dirty) air filters.

These types of relatively simple vehicle maintenance prove once and for all that it is not necessary to buy costly products to increase your gas mileage.  Simply do the maintenance that you should already be doing for your car, and you will reap the benefits!

PPPPP

Word Count 661
