Less Junk in the Trunk, More Cash to Pass

Many of the solutions to using a lot of gas are so simple, yet they somehow elude us, despite their obviousness.  After all, modern men and women have quested long and far to find any possible solutions to the problems caused by unrelenting gas prices.  While many have adopted very extreme methods of saving gas, such as becoming hermits and refusing to drive, or buying an expensive new hybrid vehicle, there are many simple ways to reduce fuel consumption as well!

It is important to make sure that you explore all of your options before resorting to a drastic choice such as becoming a shut-in, or buying a Toy-onda Motors Hybrid LX 1300 SP.  Many of the ways that you can decrease the amount of gas you use, and therefore the amount of money you spend at the gas pump, can be had without making any major changes to your lifestyle.  You simply have to be smart.  For instance, let’s discuss the junk in your trunk, and why you should get rid of it!

Many drivers make their way around town with an arsenal of items, goods and ancient artifacts in their cars that really do not need to be there.  They do this without knowing that carrying all of this extra weight in their car is costing them whenever they have to fuel up!  That is because added weight in your car makes your car work much harder to get from place to place, thereby increasing your vehicle’s fuel consumption!

How much does the added and unnecessary weight decrease your gas mileage?  Most people say that an extra hundred pounds can decrease your gas mileage by 1 or 2 percent.  This may sound like an insignificant amount, but think about gas prices.  Two percent of four dollars, for example, is eight cents.  Would you take some old items out of your trunk in order to save eight cents a gallon?  Most drivers will drive across town for savings like that!

Also, consider that you may be carrying more than an extra one hundred pounds in your car.  Depending on the amount of unneeded stuff in your car, you can be hampering your gas mileage and fuel efficiency by a somewhat significant margin!  Again, it only takes a minute to remove excess items from your car; the key is to motivate yourself to get it done!

Many people consider their cars to not just be methods of transportation, but also as a sort of mobile storage facility for things that they do not care about enough to keep in their homes.  That is the kind of thinking that wastes gas, ladies and gentlemen.  There are many different ways to decrease fuel consumption, of course, and this is just one of them.  But at the same time, every gallon counts!  If you can save a little bit of money at the pump, why pass that chance up?

It is ultimately up to you to make sure that you do the things necessary to improve the fuel efficiency of your car, truck, van or sport utility vehicle.  With gas prices continuing to go up and no end in sight, any type of relief is better than nothing!  With that in mind, get rid of that junk in your trunk and start saving!

PPPPP

Word Count 559
