Simple Vehicle Maintenance Can Save You Money on Gas

You are likely among the millions of drivers that would love to find any way possible to avoid spending so much money on gas.  Since there is no drop in sight for gas prices, the most that we can all do is try to control our fuel consumption whenever possible.  What most people do not know, however, is that there are many very simple ways to increase your car, truck, van or sport utility vehicle’s fuel efficiency, all without spending a lot of money!  Most of these methods will not require much money or much time, as they can be performed quite quickly.

It is quite understandable if you do not want to shell out money for expensive products that say they will increase your vehicle’s gas mileage.  However, that will not keep you from saving money on gas, since many of these products have not proven their claims of increased fuel efficiency, anyway!  Really, most of the best ways of reducing gas usage are also the easiest ways to do so.  This is especially true when it comes to the simple vehicle maintenance you can perform to enjoy better gas mileage.

One extremely easy way to keep your car at its best in the area of fuel efficiency is by checking the air in your tires often.  Tires that are not properly inflated to the right levels cost you precious gas mileage, believe it or not.  Fortunately, this is an easy problem to fix.  Many gas stations and car washes have free air dispensers to fill up your tires to the levels they need to be at.  Even if an air machine does cost you money, it will not usually be more than a quarter or two.  This is a very cost effective way to ensure that you are getting the type of gas mileage you should be getting when you drive.

Regular oil changes also help to keep your car’s gas mileage where it should be.  Even though it can cost money to do your own oil change or have a mechanic do it for you, it is still a cost effective method of increasing your vehicle’s fuel efficiency.  After all, you have to change your vehicle’s oil anyway, so you might as well make extra sure that you stay on top of it, since you can save on gas expenses that way.  A car that is running on the right type of oil will run much more efficiently, which is why frequent oil changes help you to conserve gas.

Also, make sure that you are getting your car tuned when it should be.  Tuning your vehicle can keep it at peak performance, which again, helps to increase gas mileage.  Meanwhile, regular checkups may reveal a problem that is making your car use more gas than it should.  By fixing certain problems with your car, you can really dramatically improve your car’s performance and fuel efficiency.  Like with oil changes, you need to regularly tune up your car anyway, so why not make it a real priority, since it can help you save gas?

Finally, one of the very best ways to conserve gas when you are driving is to check your air filters on a regular basis.  If they are clogged or dirty, make sure to replace them.  Again, this is something that needs to be done anyway to keep your engine running smoothly, but it is even more important now, since it will help you to increase your gas mileage significantly.  How significantly?  Well, many experts say that having clean air filters can increase your gas mileage by about 10%!  Think of how much 10% of a gallon of gas is.  That’s a pretty decent sum of money, by any estimation.

Remember, it is important to perform these types of regular maintenance on your vehicle anyway.  Since you can actually save money by taking care of your car, why not make it a priority?

PPPPP

Word Count 663
