Simple Ways to Stay Away from the Gas Pump

If you have driven a car in the last couple of years, you no doubt have noticed that gas prices have gotten a bit high.  That is probably an understatement, as you would have to have been living under a rock to have not known about the stratospheric rise in gas prices.  Unfortunately, there seems to really be no end in sight to the extremely high gas prices that have caused many of us to really think about how much we should be driving, what we should be driving, and a million other things.

However, drivers can help themselves in the fight to keep gas prices from making them bankrupt!  One of the easiest ways to lessen the cost of driving is to take whatever measures are available to you to reduce your fuel consumption.  Fortunately for drivers who are tired of shelling out hundreds of dollars at the gas pump, many of these solutions are very inexpensive or even free!  Here are some free ways to relieve yourself of some of the cost of driving these days.

One of the best ways to use less fuel is to simply not drive.  You are probably wondering how you will get from place to place if you do not drive your car.  Well, find a different way to get around!  Car pooling, for instance, is one of the oldest and most plausible ways to reduce gas usage as well as help reduce emissions, too.  You can car pool with co-workers or others to decrease your fuel expenses, while helping the environment as well!

Even if you are going to run to the grocery store, see if your neighbor needs anything as well!  You may be able to car pool together, and you will have some company along for the ride as well.  If you live at somewhat of a distance away from your work or other places you have to go consistently, car pooling is a great way to save money.

Even if you have no one to car pool with, you can plan your trips ahead so that you can save gas.  If the grocery store is on your way home from work, try to know what items you need so that you can simply stop by the store on your way home from work.  This will help you to save time as well as money spent on gas.  If you can not avoid making a special trip out, try to combine several stops within one trip so you can conserve gas.

When you do get to the store, try not to leave your car running while you quickly “run in” to the store.  Doing so decreases your miles per gallon to zero (think about it), and contrary to popular belief, is not more fuel efficient than turning off your engine and turning it back on a minute or two later.  Unless you want to idle your way all the way to the gas pump, make sure that you turn your car off whenever you are making a stop!

Also, try to reduce the amount of weight you carry in your car.  It can be easy to be a bit lazy and leave items in your trunk for a long time, but even a hundred extra pounds can reduce your car’s fuel economy by a couple percent compared to normal.  Many people like to pack their car with sandbags during the winter months for added traction.  If you decide to do this, make sure to remove the extra weight when it is no longer needed!

As you can surely see, there are many very uncomplicated ways that you can increase your car’s fuel efficiency.  While not all of the tips will improve your fuel efficiency that dramatically, even an extra gallon here or there is a substantial savings with today’s gas prices.

PPPPP

Word Count 651
