Stay Away from Air Conditioning, Stay Away from the Pump

Exorbitant gas prices have most drivers trying to find any way that they can to decrease their fuel expenses.  Luckily, there are several very easy ways that the average driver can limit their car, truck, van or SUV’s gas usage.  Most of these methods rely on simple changes made by the driver in particular, and will not cost you any money to enjoy their benefits.

First of all, do not waste your money on spendy items and products that boast increased gas mileage after usage.  After all, most of these products are very unproven.  The Environmental Protection Agency has not found that any of the products tested so far have significantly increased gas mileage for the vehicles they were used in.  That is why when you are looking for ways to improve fuel efficiency, you should look to methods that you can easily take advantage of on your own, without having to rely on costly products or gimmicks in the process.

One of the easiest ways to conserve gas is to simply avoid turning on the air conditioner in your vehicle.  Most people are already aware that when the air conditioner is on, the engine seems less responsive and powerful.  It may even feel a little sluggish, because your car is working hard to power the air conditioner.  Not only does the air conditioner affect your engine’s performance, however, but your vehicle will also get worsened gas mileage if you drive with the air conditioner on as well!

The solution is fairly simple and predictable: try to avoid using the air conditioner in your vehicle, unless it is absolutely necessary.  This may lead to a somewhat less comfortable environment in your car, but you have to balance out that negative against the very attractive positive involved with saving on fuel consumption.  After all, you will definitely appreciate the extra money you will have in your wallet when you can stop making such frequent stops at the gas pump!

It is also important to mention that you do not have to sweat like crazy in order to save some money.  There are ways that you can stay cool while avoiding the use of your car’s air conditioner.  One very simple way to do so is to try to constrain your traveling to times of day when the weather is less oppressive.  Avoid driving when the sun (and the temperature) is at its peak, as this will only tempt you to turn on the air conditioner.  Instead, try to make trips in the evening or morning, whenever possible.

Another way to cool off without taking the step of turning on the car’s air conditioner is as simple as rolling down the windows.  When you are driving at higher speeds, you will notice a very nice breeze coming in, which will often be enough to keep you comfortable, even on hot days.  This is a fun way to save a little money on gas, while enjoying a comforting breeze at the same time!

Some people would point out that driving with the windows open can cost you a bit of gas mileage as well, which is true.  However, the effect does not compare to the increased fuel consumption that driving your car with the air conditioner causes.  Also, you can combat this effect by simply backing up off the gas a bit and driving a little more slowly on the interstate.

No one wants to feel the heat of summer, but we also do not want to feel the heat of the gas prices bearing down on us.  If you can find ways to avoid using your vehicle’s air conditioner, you will probably be quite pleased with your car’s increased fuel efficiency.  After all, none of us wants to make more trips to the gas station than we already are, so make sure to only use the air conditioner when it is absolutely necessary!

PPPPP

Word Count 661
