Title: 
10 Tips For Better Fundraising

Word Count:
427

Summary:
If, you're looking for a fundraising project for a school, sports team or construction project you will the following useful for you.

Use these 10 tips to catapult you fund raising efforts and raise more funds.

1. Examine you database of supporters. How likely are they to help you out? Don't assume that folks will keep helping you out because they have done so in the past. Remember that people will donate only with a good strategy.

2. Who is your target audience? You...


Keywords:
fund raising, fund raiser, fund rasing, fundraising, how to raise funds


Article Body:
If, you're looking for a fundraising project for a school, sports team or construction project you will the following useful for you.

Use these 10 tips to catapult you fund raising efforts and raise more funds.

1. Examine you database of supporters. How likely are they to help you out? Don't assume that folks will keep helping you out because they have done so in the past. Remember that people will donate only with a good strategy.

2. Who is your target audience? You can expect about 25 -20% of your database to contribute. But... are they interested are they in your project and how committed are they? Can they contribute from their own funds?

3. When is the best time to ask for donations? Timing is crucial in fundraising.

4. How will you word your request for help? Look at other people’s efforts and find out what has worked in the past.

5. Energy and enthusiasm make the difference. Try to get volunteers with the time and energy to put into the project.

6. How much money do you want to raise? Have a clear amount of how much you want or need, then you can better guestimate the effort required to raise funds to that amount.

7. Determine the amount you will ask each individual for. This is a great way to get the answer to the really important question..... "is what I am providing worth the price I am asking for?" If the answer is no then your funds will not be boosted this time.

8. Examine your intangible assets. This is things like, do you have anyone who has great experience in raising funds? What are the fundraising activities that have impressed you in the past, and can you emulate them? Go through a list of these with the people in your project.

9. Keep the faith. Fundraising can be soul destroying so make sure you have taken steps to motivate your helpers by telling them the reason for the fundraising. Remind them of the good they are doing and why you need to raise the money.

10. Keep on keeping on. Don't give up. In order to achieve the best results possible, you as an active member of the team, must keep your spirits up and striving for more cash. It's the only way to rasie as much cash as possible.

By taking heed of the tips above your fund raising activity will have the best chance possible to raise funds for your club or organisation.

Just a few minutes proper planning can have a dramatic impact where it matters most............increasing your funds.


