Title: 
3 Things You Might Not Know About Refinancing A New Jersey Mortgage After Bankruptcy

Word Count:
300

Summary:
If you have never refinanced a New Jersey mortgage after bankruptcy, then you probably don't know a lot about the process. Taking time to educate yourself in regards to the way the lending industry works will be to your advantage. To help you out, here are three things in particular you may not know about refinancing a New Jersey mortgage after bankruptcy:

Lenders Will Be After You

After filing bankruptcy, you might be surprised when a whole slew of lenders come crawlin...


Keywords:
mortgage refinance, bad credit, bankruptcy, New Jersey


Article Body:
If you have never refinanced a New Jersey mortgage after bankruptcy, then you probably don't know a lot about the process. Taking time to educate yourself in regards to the way the lending industry works will be to your advantage. To help you out, here are three things in particular you may not know about refinancing a New Jersey mortgage after bankruptcy:

Lenders Will Be After You

After filing bankruptcy, you might be surprised when a whole slew of lenders come crawling out of the woodwork ready to offer you any loan that you're looking for. Perhaps you have already received phone calls, emails, or items via snail mail advertising various lending services. While it may be tempting to contact one of these companies, you will be better off soliciting your own lender rather than going with a lender who solicited you. You will especially want to steer clear of anyone asking for credit card information or bank account numbers during an initial consultation.

New Jersey Has Laws to Protect You

To protect borrowers who are interested in mortgage refinancing after bankruptcy, the state recently created the New Jersey Home Ownership Security Act. This act prohibits predatory lending practices and is specifically focused on protecting a borrower's equity. Even with this law in place, borrowers should heed any warning flags that might come up when working with a lender to refinance a New Jersey mortgage after bankruptcy.

You Need to Be a Smart Shopper

Rates, fees, and lending terms are different everywhere you go. This is why it is imperative that you be a smart shopper when searching for a New Jersey mortgage refinance after bankruptcy. Without making comparisons prior to taking out a loan, you will have no idea whether or not you are getting the best loan available.


