Title: 
5 Financial Tips For College Students

Word Count:
489

Summary:
If you are a college student, you are probably concentrating on your studies and trying to get an education that will benefit you in the future. One thing that you may not be thinking about is how to handle your money, and failing to do so can leave you in a pretty big financial mess by the time you are out of college. It is important that you take control of your finances now if you want your financial future to be bright. The following are some tips that can help you with y...


Keywords:



Article Body:
If you are a college student, you are probably concentrating on your studies and trying to get an education that will benefit you in the future. One thing that you may not be thinking about is how to handle your money, and failing to do so can leave you in a pretty big financial mess by the time you are out of college. It is important that you take control of your finances now if you want your financial future to be bright. The following are some tips that can help you with your finances to avoid any college financial disasters.

Tip #1 - Only Use Credit Cards in Emergencies - Once you get a credit card it can be all to easy to start racking up the credit card debt. This is a bad way to start out and you will probably end up with bad credit if you are using credit cards all of the time. Remember, the money you spend on credit cards will need to be repaid. It is best if you save your credit card for emergencies instead of buying that new pair of shoes or paying for an evening out. 

Tip #2 - Pay Off the Balance Every Month - It is also important that you pay off your balance each month if you have a credit card. Leaving a balance on the card can result in you paying extra money on interest, so you will save money if you pay off the balance every month. This will also keep you from getting in credit card debt over your head as well.

Tip #3 - Pay Bills on Time - Now is the time to start building your credit history, and you can do this by always paying your bills on time. If you fail to pay your bills on time, it can get quite expensive. Many companies will charge late fees if you do not pay on time and your interest rates may go up as well, costing you even more money for being late.

Tip #4 - Start Saving Now - Many college students do not realize how important saving really is, but if you can start saving while you are in college, you can reap from great benefits when you are older. Saving now will get you in the habit of saving, you will earn money from the money you save, and you will have extra money set aside in case of any emergencies as well.

Tip #5 - Look for the Best Checking Account - You can actually save a great deal of money if you look around and find the best checking account. Look for an account that has no fee for starting an account and no minimum balance. You may also want to check into any debit card fees, and fees for deposits of withdrawals. Some banks will actually offer totally free checking for college students, so take advantage of this and you can save a great deal of money every year.


