Title: 
5 Quick Steps To Start A Call Center At Home

Word Count:
495

Summary:
Like many people working from home is just a dream, but that can change. You might be thinking about trying to make some money either online or with one of those "Work From Home and Make Millions" type offers. Before you commit to something like that, make sure they aren't asking for money upfront. Anyone that asks for money to help you make money isn't looking out for your best interests, they just want to sell a product!

While the possibilities for making money at home a...


Keywords:
call center, make money, at home, make money online, make money at home, work from home, opportunity


Article Body:
Like many people working from home is just a dream, but that can change. You might be thinking about trying to make some money either online or with one of those "Work From Home and Make Millions" type offers. Before you commit to something like that, make sure they aren't asking for money upfront. Anyone that asks for money to help you make money isn't looking out for your best interests, they just want to sell a product!

While the possibilities for making money at home are endless, any option you choose will take work. If you're willing to put in some work, you can make money working from home!

So here we go, 5 quick tips to get you started with you're own at home call center.

1. Find your workspace.

You'll want to find an area that you can dedicate to your new call center business in your home. Without a special call center space, your callers will hear your baby cry, the doorbell ring and your dog barking. All those those things tend to turn potential buyers away.

For most people this workspace can be a bedroom, converted garage, or even an office at home if you're fortunate enough to already have an office.

2. Get a decent computer.

This computer doesn't have to be the latest model with the fastest CPU, but it does have to be reliable. A good option is to have an older computer as a backup in case something happens to your main computer. The main thing this computer needs to do is get on the internet.

3. Download Skype and get familiar.

Skype is free to download and you can make and receive calls. Skype offers a few paid plans, but most are still less expensive than a regular land line.

You should use Skype with a headset and try to make and receive calls so you'll know what to expect. During this test you should listen to the call quality and how quickly and efficiently everything works.

4. Use SkypeIn for each client.

Since you'll most likely start your at home call center by having a few different clients and receiving calls from each client on a daily basis, you'll need to know how to answer the phone. SkypeIn allows you to have a phone number for each client. This way you will know which client you're answering for before you pick up the phone.

5. Find your clients.

This part of the process is the most difficult. You'll need to contact people directly and check out freelance websites on a daily basis. These clients can be tough to find, but once you find one, you'll know how to find more for your at home call center.

My favorite places to look at call center blogs and job sites. Many times you can find companies looking to hire call center consultants that are willing to work from home. That saves them money and you get the freedom to work from home.


