Title: 
5 Questions Every Mom Should Ask About Paid Surveys

Word Count:
693

Summary:
If you’re reading this, you’re probably looking for some extra money. You’re willing to work but you want to be compensated for your time. You also want flexibility in your schedule. If this sounds like you, then paid surveys can be wonderful.

Paid surveys are perfect for stay at home mothers. Obviously the extra money will help with the bills. They can also be quite fun. Of course, since surveys can be done online, the schedule is up to you. You can take surveys when the ...


Keywords:
paid survey, paid online survey, get paid for survey


Article Body:
If you’re reading this, you’re probably looking for some extra money. You’re willing to work but you want to be compensated for your time. You also want flexibility in your schedule. If this sounds like you, then paid surveys can be wonderful.

Paid surveys are perfect for stay at home mothers. Obviously the extra money will help with the bills. They can also be quite fun. Of course, since surveys can be done online, the schedule is up to you. You can take surveys when the baby is sleeping, when the kids are out, or while watching TV with the family. It is really up to you. You’re in control.

To figure out if paid surveys are for you, it is important to ask the right questions. Below are the 5 questions moms should ask.

1. Is it really possible to get paid for taking surveys online? Explain this!

Surveys are legitimate. They are real. As a mom, you can make money from your home taking surveys online. According to the research, there are at least 6-7 million companies that survey consumers. They pay you for your opinions. Ultimately, they do this to figure out how to sell their products and services. You are helping them do research and they are paying you for it.

2. How much money can I earn? How many surveys can I take?

This is actually pretty simple. The amount of money you make is directly proportional to the effort you put in. In plain terms, the more surveys you take, the more you earn. Your monthly income will depend on what you do and how much time you spend. Some people are on top of the latest promotions and are in tune with the needs of marketing companies. They react quickly to survey requests. Based on the circumstances, it is possible to make $75 per hour or more for every hour, although this will vary. The key to maximizing you opportunities will be subscribing to a paid survey database.

3. How do I know this is legitimate and that I’ll get paid? Are there any guarantees?

Most paid survey and marketing research companies are legitimate. However, there are some scams. To find the best opportunities and to avoid scams, it is best to pay a small fee to join a paid survey database. They often offer many perks too, such as free ebooks on maximizing revenue and also form filling automation tools. Keep in mind that fraudulent companies will be quickly removed from the paid survey databases. If you surf for surveys on your own, one at a time, you’re likely to encounter issues. That means you’ll waste your time and energy. As a mother, you can’t afford to waste what spare time you have!

4. How often will I be paid? How often will I be paid? Exactly how am I paid?

The companies administering the survey will usually pay you directly. This is almost always done using checks. The delivery is usually done with postal mail. The more progressive companies understand the needs of mothers. They provide flexibility and pay via PayPal. Typically, you’ll get paid every other week. In some cases, you might have to wait a full month. Be sure to pay attention.

5. Why do paid survey databases charge a fee?

The simple answer is quality, safety and reputation. A small fee for subscription to a paid survey database will pay for itself in just a few days for active moms. The small fees also encourage serious applicants only. Consider it a screening process. This increases the quality of the database and increases the likelihood that companies will seek out the paid survey databases. It works better for everyone and actually drives up your chances for getting in on a good (high paying) survey. Some companies only work with a few paid survey databases, so again, your small subscription fee will give you better opportunities.

They are many opportunities out there for moms. With a little time and energy, and perhaps a small upfront investment for access to a paid survey database, you could be pulling down smart money every day.


