Title: 
5 Things To Look For When Choosing A Credit Card

Word Count:
526

Summary:
If you need or want a credit card for those emergencies in your life when you have no cash, you need to be careful what credit card you apply for. It is important that you look over credit card offers carefully so you can make an educated and wise decision on which credit card to choose. If you merely choose the first credit card offer you receive in the mail, you may find yourself in trouble with a card you do not want. The following are some things to look for when you are ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
If you need or want a credit card for those emergencies in your life when you have no cash, you need to be careful what credit card you apply for. It is important that you look over credit card offers carefully so you can make an educated and wise decision on which credit card to choose. If you merely choose the first credit card offer you receive in the mail, you may find yourself in trouble with a card you do not want. The following are some things to look for when you are trying to choose the best credit card for you.

0% Interest Rates
When you are looking for the right credit card, keep your eyes open for cards that offer 0% interest on purchases. Interest rates can cost you a great deal of money if you do not pay off your credit card, so finding a card that charges no interest can save you a great deal of money. If you do choose a 0% interest credit card, take note of when that interest rate may expire because often that rate is only for 6-12 months.

Look for Hidden Fees
If you are choosing a credit card, you want to be sure that you look for hidden fees that may be involved with credit cards. Some come in the form as annual fees, processing fees, and even maintenance fees. Even if the card looks like a great deal, these fees can go on your card and will cost you a great deal of money. It is usually best to avoid cards that have hidden fees associated with them. If you keep on the lookout for hidden fees when you are looking for a credit card, you can avoid paying more than you need.

Rewards Programs
Another thing to look for when you are choosing a great credit card is any rewards programs that may come with the card. Many credit cards offer rewards that are dependent on the purchases you make using your credit card. Some companies offer cash back on your purchases while others offer chances for free vacations. A rewards program that offers cash back can be a great idea when you are using a credit card often.

Cash Advance Option
If you are getting your credit card to use in emergencies, you may want to choose a credit card that gives you a cash advance option. This option allows you to get cash from an ATM if you need it. While the interest rates on this cash can be quite high, there are times when you may need emergency cash, so this is a great option to look for when choosing a credit card.

Online Payment Options
If you are constantly on the go and lead a busy life, you may not want to constantly worry about sending bills in on time. When choosing a credit card, you may want to look for one that allows you to pay your bill online each month. This is very convenient and can be helpful if you forget to pay until the last minute. This option can save you a great deal in late fees as well.


