Title: 
5 Tips To Help You Consolidate Debts

Word Count:
535

Summary:
Recent studies have shown the average American is about $10,000 in debt. Because of this, many people are looking for ways to consolidate their debts. It is not always an easy task to find ways to get your debt consolidated, but it is possible. Often, it can be important to consolidate debts because doing so can help your financial future become a bit brighter. It also helps you in short-term financial ways as well. The following are a few tips that can help you consolidate y...


Keywords:
consolidate debts


Article Body:
Recent studies have shown the average American is about $10,000 in debt. Because of this, many people are looking for ways to consolidate their debts. It is not always an easy task to find ways to get your debt consolidated, but it is possible. Often, it can be important to consolidate debts because doing so can help your financial future become a bit brighter. It also helps you in short-term financial ways as well. The following are a few tips that can help you consolidate your debts to help improve your financial picture.

Tip#1 Seek Lower Interest Credit Cards

If you have debt that is on high interest credit cards, you may want to consider consolidating those debts onto low interest credit cards. There are various credit cards where you can transfer the high interest balance to one card. These cards offer low interest rates and some that even offer zero percent interest for a selected portion of time. Why keep paying those higher interest rates. You can get a lower interest credit card and save yourself much money each year.

Tip#2 Use the Equity in Your Home

One avenue for consolidating debts that many people forget is using the equity that they have in their home. If you own your own home, you may be eligible to get a home equity loan. In addition, you can apply for a line of credit to help you consolidate those high interest debts that you may have. It is important that you always keep current on your monthly payments to avoid losing your home.

Tip#3 Debt Consolidation Loans

Another way that you can consolidate debts is by taking out a debt consolidation loan. You would find these loans suitable if you have too much debt, and you find it tough meeting the monthly payments. Also, if you shop around you should get a break on the interest rate. That alone could reduce your monthly payments. Once you reduce your payments, you get out of debt much quicker than you could by paying off individual debts each month.

Tip#4 Try to Settle Your Debts

If you are desperate for a solution, try calling your creditors. Some creditors would be glad to help you continue paying, even a small amount. But don't be fooled. It is in their best interest to motivate you to keep paying. So if you have the will to clear all your debts, you can most likely settle with your creditors. Remember you will need to contact all your creditors for this to work. Having one or two on board and not the other four can derail your plans with the first two creditors. Of course, there are other ways you can do this. Just use your imagination.

Tip#5 Refinance Your Home

You can also consolidate your debts by refinancing your home. By refinancing your home at a lower interest you can free up some cash. You can use the extra money to pay off some of your high interest debts.

These are just a few tips that can help you to consolidate your debts. Remember to weigh your choices carefully. Choose the one that gives you extra cash and some breathing room, in that order.


