Title: 
5 Ways To Better Gas Mileage

Word Count:
560

Summary:
Everyone and their brother love to save money whether it’s at the grocery store or at the gas station. What people don’t think about is how to get more for their money. This is where driving techniques come in. Did you know that certain driving techniques will give you better gas mileage? What does this mean for you in the long? It means you get more mileage per gallon equaling more money in your pockets.

Check your tires air pressure once a week

Every week, you should ...


Keywords:
gas credit cards, gas cards, gas station, gasoline, gas, vehicle


Article Body:
Everyone and their brother love to save money whether it’s at the grocery store or at the gas station. What people don’t think about is how to get more for their money. This is where driving techniques come in. Did you know that certain driving techniques will give you better gas mileage? What does this mean for you in the long? It means you get more mileage per gallon equaling more money in your pockets.

Check your tires air pressure once a week

Every week, you should check your tire’s air pressure. Air pressure is important when it comes to getting great gas mileage. If your tires tend to be low, the car may be unbalanced, therefore making the car use a little extra gas power.

Drop your speeds

Did you know if you drop your speed by a few miles per hour, you’ll save on gas? Let’s put it in simple terms. The faster you go, the more gas you’re going to have to burn. So the next time you’re driving 90 on the freeway, just think of all the gas you’re burning just to get nowhere fast.

Use your cruise control

Most cars nowadays have a cruise control feature. This feature works wonders on the highway or just about any stretch of road where you don’t have to consistently stop. If you use your cruise control often, you will find that your gas mileage will be a little better because you’re keeping a consistent speed. The more consistent you are with your driving, the better miles per gallon you’ll get

Lay off the air

Every time you turn on your air conditioner, you’re wasting even more gas. If you’re driving on side streets, it’s always best to just have your windows down so you can save on gas. If you tend to drive the highways a lot, it’s sometimes better to use your air conditioning because of aerodynamic purposes. The next time its luke warm outside and you really don’t need your air, don’t use it!

Research your gas prices

If you tend to drive and fill up in the same area constantly, you may find that some gas stations have cheaper gas than the others. The same goes with areas. A lot of the times you will find that lower income neighborhoods will have cheaper gas than upscale neighborhoods. If you think about it, it makes perfect sense. Rich people have money so they are going to spend more on their gas and the same goes with the lower income neighborhoods. They don’t have as much money, so they won’t spend as much.

Besides looking into neighborhoods, if you know you’re going to fill up, you can hop online to particular gas price searching websites like gasbuddy.com and look at current gas prices. This way you’ll know what stations have the cheapest prices.

These are just a few of the many ways you can save on gas. There are many tips that you can find that work and don’t work. It’s important to just keep a steady speed and not worry about speeding all over the place. The more consistent and friendly you are to your vehicle, the more you’ll save on gas.


