Title: 
6 Tips For Managing Your Money Wisely, Part 2

Word Count:
337

Summary:
PAY YOURSELF FIRST. Treat yourself as your most important creditor. Determine an amount that can be saved weekly, fortnightly or monthly for long term purposes and emergencies and save it regardless. Somehow we manage to find the money for the phone bill, the rent etc so much decide to find the money for savings. This money management decision is life changing as over time it leads to financial independence.

AUTOMATE YOUR PAYMENTS. When things get stressful and we become o...


Keywords:



Article Body:
PAY YOURSELF FIRST. Treat yourself as your most important creditor. Determine an amount that can be saved weekly, fortnightly or monthly for long term purposes and emergencies and save it regardless. Somehow we manage to find the money for the phone bill, the rent etc so much decide to find the money for savings. This money management decision is life changing as over time it leads to financial independence.

AUTOMATE YOUR PAYMENTS. When things get stressful and we become overwhelmed with financial worries, our financial affairs can get out of control very quickly. Internet banking can solve a lot of this problem. If a part of your problem is that your income is inadequate, then automate some or most of your payments. Doing this, releases the stress of having to find the money for a lot of different payments. You may still be short one or two payments but it is easier to look for a solution for one or two payments as opposed to six or seven. Effectively, automating your payments saves you time and stress and helps you to take control of your financial affairs.

CONSOLIDATE DEBTS. If you are able to consolidate a number of debts into one loan at the lowest possible interest rate, your monthly expenditure will decrease, sometimes by a lot. If you own your own home, you will be able to get a home equity loan at comparatively low interest, which is a better option than a personal loan.

USE MONEY FOR THINGS OF LASTING VALUE. So much money is spent on items that have no lasting value and give no lasting pleasure. Many of this spending is at the expense of those things that actually do matter and will really benefit us in the long run such as owning property, funding retirement and paying for education.

These money management tips can improve the quality of your life by helping you take back control of your finances, reduce stress, increase savings and make better long term decisions regarding your spending.


