Title: 
9 Steps On How To Apply For A Credit Card

Word Count:
604

Summary:
If it’s your first time to apply for a credit card, it’s understandable that you’re feeling a bit apprehensive about the outcome. There are several things you can do however to increase your chances of getting approved.

9 Steps on How to Apply for a Credit Card

Step #1 Find a credit card you want and need. There are basically two types of credit cards to choose from: low interest credit cards and those that are reward based. If you are applying for a credit card only fo...


Keywords:
credit card,apply for credit card,credit card debt


Article Body:
If it’s your first time to apply for a credit card, it’s understandable that you’re feeling a bit apprehensive about the outcome. There are several things you can do however to increase your chances of getting approved.

9 Steps on How to Apply for a Credit Card

Step #1 Find a credit card you want and need. There are basically two types of credit cards to choose from: low interest credit cards and those that are reward based. If you are applying for a credit card only for emergency use, you’d be able to maximize the benefits of a low interest card. But if you’re applying for a credit card to enjoy better shopping then you’re definitely more suited to a reward based credit card.

Step #2 Prepare possible credit card requirements such as photos, Social Security number, valid IDs, proof of income, and billing. Check your credit ranking. If it’s below 620, you can’t proceed to Step #3 without repairing your credit first. If you’re only a college student, prepare proof that you’re still studying and maybe copies of your most recent grades.

Step #3 Now that you have everything ready, it’s time to apply for a credit card online. If the design of your card is customizable, this might be the first step you’ll have to take. Choose the design that appeals to you the most.

Step #4 You will have to fill up an online application form online afterwards. The first section will usually require you to provide your contact details. It’s important that you be able to provide a landline number they can contact if you’re going to be subjected to a subsequent interview.

Step #5 The next section will usually be regarding your employment status and history. What the credit card company basically wants to know if you’re currently employed and how long you’ve been with your current employer. This will allow them to gauge whether you’re a responsible and reliable person. Generally, the longer you’ve been with your employer the better.

Step #6 Income information is also very important. Your gross income – or how much you’re earning in total without subtracting your expenses first – will allow them to determine how high your credit card limit should be. Of course, if you’re not too sure about your self-control, you can ask them to lower your credit card limit to what you feel most comfortable with. If you plan giving an extension or supplementary card to someone else, you could also choose how much limit his card would have.

Step #7 The online application form might also require you to indicate whether or not you have a checking or savings account. Don’t worry if you don’t have one because it’s not really necessary for you to have either; having either, however, helps the credit card company evaluate your application better.

Step #8 Once you’ve submitted your application form online, you will only have to wait mere minutes and no more than 24 hours to know the status of your application. It’s possible that you’ll receive a call afterwards if they wish to verify additional information about you. When that happens, just answer their questions calmly and confidently.

Step #9 If you get rejected, don’t take this to heart. You can ask them the reasons for your failure to get a credit card, and from there, you can determine what to do next. You can also ask for your employer or a relative with an outstanding credit score to serve as your guarantor on your next application.


