Title: 
9 Things You Should Do Before Applying For A Balloon Mortgage

Word Count:
589

Summary:
A balloon mortgage is a short-term mortgage that usually has only about five to seven years.  It works similar to a fixed rate mortgage when you make monthly payments but at the end of the term, the final payment is much larger than the other payments to pay off the balance of the loan.

That being the case, there are certain things you need to consider before applying for a balloon mortgage.

1. What do you need to have in order to apply?  Applying for balloon mortgage i...


Keywords:
mortgage, balloon mortgage, financing. loan, finance


Article Body:
A balloon mortgage is a short-term mortgage that usually has only about five to seven years.  It works similar to a fixed rate mortgage when you make monthly payments but at the end of the term, the final payment is much larger than the other payments to pay off the balance of the loan.

That being the case, there are certain things you need to consider before applying for a balloon mortgage.

1. What do you need to have in order to apply?  Applying for balloon mortgage is similar to regular mortgage and you'll probably be the same documents and papers that you would for any other type of mortgage.  However, you should ask your lending institution with paperwork you'll need to have available.

2. what is the interest rate?  Just like with any other mortgage to want to know what the interest rate is.  In a balloon mortgage it is usually fixed for a certain amount of time.  Sometimes it may carry a lower interest rate for the first several years but this really depends on the lender and you should get this information before you make any commitment.

3. When does the balance become too?  In a balloon mortgage you pay part of the amount borrowed in equal installments, but the last payment can be a doozy and you are obligated to pay the entire balance.  Therefore, no wait when this is going to crop up is important so that you can either have other financial arrangements waiting in the wings or start saving your pennies for that fateful day.

4. Is there a refinance options?  Since most people won't have the money to pay the balloon payment in one lump sum, it's prudent to ask if there are refinance options with the loan so when it becomes due you can refinance and come up with a new payment arrangement.

5. Can you lose the refinance option?  Sometimes a refinance option comes with a set of conditions one of which is prompt payment.  Find out what kinds of things can make you lose the refinance option so you can follow the guidelines in order to keep this option open at the end of the loan.

6. Would you have to qualify to refinance?  Refinancing is a privilege offered to some people with the balloon mortgage and some lending institutions will want to reassess your ability to pay.  Find out if you will be required to go through some sort of an evaluation and pass and signed documents began when you refinance.

7. Can you pay the loan?  before entering into any kind of loan agreement you want to look at your lifestyle, expenditures and financial commitments and figure out if you really can afford to pay not only the payments but the lump sum at the end.

8. What is the worst case?  Before entering into a balloon mortgage agreement you want to be prepared for anything unexpected and when your worst-case scenarios.  What if you lose your job?  You want to think about your own financial situation as well as the economic situation of the country.

9. What does someone else think?  When you're trying to get a mortgage, you might be too close to the situation to make an impartial judgment.  It's not a bad idea to solicit the advice of a professional finance expert to see if this is the right thing for you to do.

If you've gone through all the steps and answered all the questions above to your satisfaction, then you'll know if a balloon mortgage is right for you.


