Title: 
"Using Personal Loans For Credit Card Debt..."

Word Count:
584

Summary:
Credit card debt is widespread amongst the average American household and seeking ways of consolidating debt usually means utilizing the equity in ones home or seeking a personal loan to service the credit card payments. Using the equity in your home to apply for an equity home loan and directing the funds towards debt management is an excellent method for getting your house in order in regards to your finances.

A personal loan without collateral may sound inviting but res...


Keywords:
personal loans, credit card debt, home equity loans


Article Body:
Credit card debt is widespread amongst the average American household and seeking ways of consolidating debt usually means utilizing the equity in ones home or seeking a personal loan to service the credit card payments. Using the equity in your home to apply for an equity home loan and directing the funds towards debt management is an excellent method for getting your house in order in regards to your finances.

A personal loan without collateral may sound inviting but rest assured any financial institution or broker is going to want a higher return for the added risk. Using the equity in ones home has become a popular form of liquidity to finance and consolidate existing credit card debt, however not without its risks. Be sure you read the fine print & beware of the risks of defaulting on any repayments when using the equity in your home for a equity home loan as you could end up losing your family home to your creditors should you fail to meet the repayments!!!

Consolidating debt for some means digging into their 401K for immediate relief to the detriment of their future well being. Immediate relief from credit card debt and the high fees and interest associated with such debts is a huge incentive for some to look for the 401K alternative. The compromise to such action is that you are forgoing future savings and security for immediate relief, but if the timing is right and you are confident of repaying the loan it certainly is a viable proposition. It is a very appealing short term debt solution which has its benefits as well as draw backs.

It is always wise to stack the advantages against the disadvantages in anything dealing with your finances and when formulating a wise debt management strategy. Any unforeseen event which can disrupt your repayment schedule could mean penalties due in the form of tax installments or the fulfillment of the principal on the borrowed loan.

Tax perks when saving with a 401K account are reduced when borrowing off your retirement, as you are reimbursing the account with after-tax dollars.

Be sure to negotiate a better interest rate on any repayments with any loan whether it be a personal or a home equity loan. The higher the interest rates, the higher the repayments, the less disposable income that is left for savings or other pleasures of life so ensure you manage your credit card debts first as they carry the highest interest rates of any form of credit.

The rate you are able to negotiate your interest will be fixed for the duration of your personal loan and you will be required to make monthly installments to service the loan which will be at a rate much lower than any credit card debt you are carrying. Undisciplined habits of making late and overdue credit card payments tends to incur extremely high fees and even higher interest rates which can become a major problem to most budgets.

A savings account allows you the luxury of redirecting resources to areas of debt which have the potential to erode ones worth very quickly if left unchecked!!! When you compare the interest rate you earn on a savings account and the cost of credit card debt it makes little sense not redirecting funds from you savings account towards servicing debts elsewhere??? Be smart and service your credit card debt before setting up any high yield savings account, you will be thankful you did in the long run.


