Title: 
About 0% APR Credit Cards

Word Count:
593

Summary:
APR, (which stands for annual percentage rate), is an important factor when deciding what credit card you want to sign up for. Specifically defined, APR is simply the rate of interest you will be charged by your credit card company. Credit cards offer a variety of approaches to APR. Some will offer you a fixed-rate APR, so you’ll be paying at a particular interest rate for the whole time you have a balance. Others will offer you an introductory APR. You start off with a very ...


Keywords:
0 apr credit card, credit card, interest rate, 0 apr 1 year


Article Body:
APR, (which stands for annual percentage rate), is an important factor when deciding what credit card you want to sign up for. Specifically defined, APR is simply the rate of interest you will be charged by your credit card company. Credit cards offer a variety of approaches to APR. Some will offer you a fixed-rate APR, so you’ll be paying at a particular interest rate for the whole time you have a balance. Others will offer you an introductory APR. You start off with a very low interest rate then after a certain period of time, it would change to a higher rate. However, what you should try to look for are 0% APR credit cards. With 0% APR credit cards, you do not have to worry about an interest rate at all for a defined period of time. In fact, the average time period that most credit cards will offer a 0% APR is usually 6 months to 1 year. There are even a few 0% APR credit cards that may offer this rate for as long as fifteen months!

So, why do 0% APR credit cards exist? It’s simple. By offering 0% APR credit cards, companies hope that their customers are going to embark on a spending frenzy. When the phenomenally low APR rate ends, 0% APR credit cards turn into credit cards charging a normal interest rate. The customer has to pay at this rate until their balance is paid in full.

For this reason if you’re considering signing up for a 0% APR credit card, it is very important you do whatever you can to pay your balance before the 0% APR term is up. For example, if you get a 0% APR credit card that has a 0% APR for 1 year, you will have exactly 1 year to pay whatever balance you have before you get charged interest. To try and avoid having a balance that you can’t afford, it’s best to spend small and pay it off as soon as you can. You may even want to make your own personal payment plan where you set aside some money that’s to only be used for paying your credit card.

With that being said, if you’re still interested in obtaining a 0% APR credit card, you should look no further than the Internet. Of course, it may be tempting to use one of the offers that come in the mail, but if you do that you may not get the best 0% APR credit card available. This is because there are some 0% APR credit cards that, in addition to offering a non-existent APR, also offer additional rewards. These can include: special points that can be redeemed for merchandise, travel rewards or even cash back. This means if you spend carefully enough, a 0% APR credit card can actually earn you free stuff or cash to help you pay your other bills. But if you sign up with just any 0% APR credit card offer you might receive in the mail, you may not get these advantages.

So, set the mailing aside and go on the Internet first. Visit a credit card comparison website, choose a card and follow the prompts to sign up for the offer. When you are finished, most 0% APR credit card sites will let you know in a matter of minutes if you’re approved or not. If you’re not approved do the process again. Keep doing it until you find the right 0% APR credit card. If you can’t find anything, only then should you send in any mail-in offers you may have received.


