Title: 
About Free Student Grants

Word Count:
424

Summary:
The main thrust of the free student grant program is to help students who want to study to pursue their dream of post-secondary education without being a burden on their families. In some cases, without having to give up their dream altogether because of lack of funds. This is why there are yearly free grants set aside upwards of $67 billion. For totally free grants, there’s Federal Pell Grants. The grants students get from here do not have to be paid back. The amount of fund...


Keywords:
grants


Article Body:
The main thrust of the free student grant program is to help students who want to study to pursue their dream of post-secondary education without being a burden on their families. In some cases, without having to give up their dream altogether because of lack of funds. This is why there are yearly free grants set aside upwards of $67 billion. For totally free grants, there’s Federal Pell Grants. The grants students get from here do not have to be paid back. The amount of funding given is based on the student’s financial needs. This takes into account the course fees, whether the student is full-time or part-time, and whether he will attend the whole academic year or not.

Students can also avail of campus-based aid. These too are free grants for students and are managed by the financial aid office in that particular school. So the onus is on the school to distribute this largesse to the most deserving students. The amount that each student will get will depend on his needs, whether he is already getting aid from any other source and on the total amount of funds available to the school to give out.

Students should go to the FAFSA or the Free Application for Federal Student Aid site and fill out the online application form. This site gives a lot of information on free student grants.

What makes you eligible for a student grant? You need to be a US citizen or an eligible non-citizen. You have to have a high school diploma that is valid or a GED (General Education Development) certificate. Failing which, you will have to do a test and pass it. This test will have to be approved by the Department of Education. You will also have to have an SSN (Social Security Number). Males between 18 and 25 will have to register for Selective Service and you will have to be enrolled as a regular student in a program that is eligible. You will also have to maintain your good academic standing.

You will not get federal funding if you have been booked for drugs. However, this is relaxed in the case of non-federal funding agencies like the state or organizations or individuals. So you do not stand disqualified. This is why it is important for a student to fill out the FAFSA application. Free student funding is a great thing to have. It opens the doors of higher education for you and you can enter into this hallowed world without having to pay for it.


