Title: 
Accidental Damage Cover – An Important Part Of Your Home Contents Insurance

Word Count:
397

Summary:
Your home contents insurance could really come in handy if you suffer from an accident in your home which causes you to damage your possessions.

While all policies don’t provide the same type of cover, and the cover depends on how much you pay for your premium and also the type of cover you take, some items in your home can be covered for accidental damage.

If you have buildings insurance then your policy will probably cover you to some extent against accidental damage ...


Keywords:
buildings and content insurance, home insurance, household insurance


Article Body:
Your home contents insurance could really come in handy if you suffer from an accident in your home which causes you to damage your possessions.

While all policies don’t provide the same type of cover, and the cover depends on how much you pay for your premium and also the type of cover you take, some items in your home can be covered for accidental damage.

If you have buildings insurance then your policy will probably cover you to some extent against accidental damage to windows and pipes through which an accident causes them to burst, or sanitary ware. 

The same can be said for home contents insurance. Should you accidentally burst a pipe and water damages your possessions, then to an extent you could be covered for the damage. In some cases the contents of your freezer will be covered should this be damaged due to an accident or the contents damaged due even a long power cut. 

Accidental damage that occurs to TV screens, computer screens and similar items could also be covered by your policy.

However not all policies allow and will pay out for accidental damage, so it is important that you understand what is and is not covered by the policy. This is also an important factor to take into account when comparing premiums and you should do so on a like-for-like basis. Premiums vary a lot so do look into what is actually covered in the policy. Some times prices will vary from company to company for the same cover, but then it can also be due to the fact that a certain policy does include more accidental damage than the other.

If your policy doesn’t include accidental cover or is very limited then it could be well worth thinking about taking out extra accidental damage cover. The truth is that no one knows when an accident will occur and sometimes accidents can be very costly. Shop around online for the policy that gives you the best amount of accidental cover while still being reasonable in premiums. 

Always read the small print of a policy and never take for granted that something will be covered for accidental damage. However, should the worst come to the worst and you do suffer an accident, then it could be worth getting in touch with your insurer to see if you are covered.


