Title: 
Advantages Of Applying Online

Word Count:
514

Summary:
As a student looking for a credit card, everything is going to be foreign to you at first. Don’t worry, it happens to all of us. The best thing about applying for a credit card online is that you’re able to read all of the terms and conditions before applying without having someone breathing down your neck while getting that free t-shirt.

By now, you’ve probably noticed those pesky credit card tents set up on your campus. It’s quite simple, you sign up and the companies ei...


Keywords:
student credit cards, visa student credit cards, college student credit cards


Article Body:
As a student looking for a credit card, everything is going to be foreign to you at first. Don’t worry, it happens to all of us. The best thing about applying for a credit card online is that you’re able to read all of the terms and conditions before applying without having someone breathing down your neck while getting that free t-shirt.

By now, you’ve probably noticed those pesky credit card tents set up on your campus. It’s quite simple, you sign up and the companies either supply you with a free lunch or an extra large t-shirt that you’ll never wear. America likes free things and this is exactly why these types of systems work.

Let’s look at the downfall of applying for a credit card for that free t-shirt. When applying, you’re not going to be able to know exactly what you’re applying for. You’re going to feel rushed when filling out the form and sometimes, you won’t even know the APR rate, which is a bad thing.

The nice thing about applying online is that you’re able to have choice. Instead of having one credit card company pushing one credit card, you can target a specific group of credit cards. So if you’re looking for a student credit card, you’re able to find a website designed for that niche. From there, you’ll be able to browse each and every card carrier such as MasterCard, VISA, etc.

The nice thing about applying online is that you actually have a choice. You’re able to sit down, take your time and read what each credit card is about. Every credit card out there offers many rewards such as gas rewards, hotel rewards, and so much more. Just because you’re a student, this doesn’t mean you’re going to get these rewards. Most of the times you won’t receive these rewards are if you have bad credit.

When you think of the kiosks, you can’t really think of perk besides getting that t-shirt. Let’s face it. You’re not going to be able to read the terms and they always supply you with a t-shirt that doesn’t even fit. So the question is, is it worth it in the end?

When applying for your first credit card, especially when you’re a student, it’s very important that you do your research and find what you’re getting yourself into. Further down the road when you have established credit and you know what credit cards are all about then maybe that free towel or t-shirt won’t be a bad idea after all.

In the meantime, it’s very important that you take the time to either do your research online or ask around your family and friends. This way you’ll know exactly what your credit card is all about and you’ll feel good in the long run knowing you’ve applied for a card that will actually come to good use!


