Title: 
Advice On Second Property Mortgage Offers

Word Count:
441

Summary:
There are many good second property mortgage offers around, that is providing you know what you are looking for and you know where to go to dig them out. By far the best way to go about getting the best deal when it comes to your second mortgage is to go with a specialist broker. A broker knows the ins and outs of second home mortgages and knows exactly where to look to get the best deal for your needs.

When it comes to getting the best second property mortgage offers then...


Keywords:
Holiday Property Mortgages, Holiday Let Mortgages


Article Body:
There are many good second property mortgage offers around, that is providing you know what you are looking for and you know where to go to dig them out. By far the best way to go about getting the best deal when it comes to your second mortgage is to go with a specialist broker. A broker knows the ins and outs of second home mortgages and knows exactly where to look to get the best deal for your needs.

When it comes to getting the best second property mortgage offers then you will of course have to decide what it is you are buying the property for, the type of mortgage will differ according to the fact of if you are thinking of letting the property or are going to be using it as a holiday home for yourself.

Another difference for the two is the insurance you will need to cover your second property; if you are going to be letting it then you will need to take out landlord insurance which will cover the tenants and yourself. If going for a buy to let mortgage then you will have to meet certain requirements set out and these include making sure the property is fully furnished, it has be available to rent for at least 140 days out of the year and you must let it for 70 days within a specific period of time. Of course you can discuss this with your broker to make sure that you get the best deal on your mortgage.

Lenders will calculate the mortgage on different factors, for example if the property is going to be used as a holiday let then the lender will want to know that it is in an area that is going to draw in renters. One of the main factors taken into consideration by the lender of a holiday let mortgage is that you will be able to bring in around 130% of the mortgage from the rent. If you are going for just a second mortgage for your property then the biggest factor will of course be the amount of income that you earn. 

Whichever type of property and mortgage you are going for the easiest way to get the best second property mortgage offers is by going to and taking advice from a specialist broker. While you will have to pay for the services of the broker when you take into account that they have the expertise in finding the best deals and giving the best advice you could in the long run save yourself money if you should make a huge mistake by going it alone.


