Title: 
Why Second Mortgage?

Word Count:
302

Summary:
Second Mortgage Overview?

Second mortgage is great and easy way to raise money for any purpose. A second mortgage simply means that the amount you borrow is secured by your property, in second preference to your first mortgage. Some lenders call it secured loan.

Second Mortgage and Home Equity Loan

The amount you can borrow is depends on the difference between the value of the property and the amount of your first mortgage. Better known as the equity you have on your...


Keywords:
Mortgage, Refinance, Debt Consolidation,Home Equity Loans


Article Body:
Second Mortgage Overview?

Second mortgage is great and easy way to raise money for any purpose. A second mortgage simply means that the amount you borrow is secured by your property, in second preference to your first mortgage. Some lenders call it secured loan.

Second Mortgage and Home Equity Loan

The amount you can borrow is depends on the difference between the value of the property and the amount of your first mortgage. Better known as the equity you have on your property.

Second Mortgage Interest Rate

The second mortgage interest rate are a bit higher than 1st mortgage rate. But the interest paid on the second mortgage may be tax deductible. In most cases the accumulated interest is 100% fully deductible as long as the combined loan to value of the first and second mortgage does not exceed the price of the home.

Typically the terms of the loans are for 5; 10 or 15 years, which means that you can choose monthly repayment in accordance with your circumstances.

Debt Consolidation, Home Improvements

Since the loan is secured the interest charged is very competitive compared to other loans, especially credit card loans. Generally, there are no restrictions on the way you use the money. You are free to use it as you please - from debt consolidation to home improvements, from college education to buy a second home or even a dream holiday.

Usually, lenders are eager to lend money to home owners because the loan is secured and the borrower has already passed a stringent credit worthiness when he applied for the first mortgage.

One more things, freedom and speed. Second mortgage put you in the driving seat and in charge of your own finance affairs in the fastest way possible. Come on, you can do it.

© http://finance.brand-blog.com/ - http://loanroad.co.uk/


