Title: 
You Must Have The Blue American Express Card

Word Count:
637

Summary:
These days, credit cards are loaded with great features and benefits. The American Express Blue card is no exception. In fact, it is one of the better credit cards to own.

The Blue card gives you flexibility and freedom you may or may not find in other major credit cards. Depending on how you like to manage your finances, you can pay off your Blue credit card balance in full each month or over an extended time period. The Blue card has no annual fee and a 0% APR (Annual Pe...


Keywords:
american express card,credit card,credit cards,credit card offer,credit card deal


Article Body:
These days, credit cards are loaded with great features and benefits. The American Express Blue card is no exception. In fact, it is one of the better credit cards to own.

The Blue card gives you flexibility and freedom you may or may not find in other major credit cards. Depending on how you like to manage your finances, you can pay off your Blue credit card balance in full each month or over an extended time period. The Blue card has no annual fee and a 0% APR (Annual Percentage Rate) for the first 15 months – 3 months longer than most reward credit cards. There is also a 20 day grace period to defer monthly interest fees and if you want additional credit cards for family and friends, you will receive them free.

The credit card offers a no cost rewards program. After you join, you will receive 1 point for nearly every Blue card purchase you make. It won’t matter whether you are buying ice cream or airline tickets, you will add up points that can be redeemed for retail products, entertainment, travel and much more. When you transfer balances from other higher interest rate credit cards to your American Express Blue card, you enjoy a low fixed rate of 4.99% until the balance is paid off and there is no transaction fee to make the balance transfer. This Blue card feature can save you hundreds, perhaps thousands of dollars.

The most current billing information is available to you online, including transactions, charges, and payments. You also get Express Pay: Express Pay is a payment technology that lets you make purchases without swiping your Blue card. Once you have made a purchase you just hold the card up to the payment reader, by the register, and that is it. You do not have to sign anything and you may get a receipt if you choose. There are thousands of Express Pay readers nationwide making it easy for you to make purchases quickly and easily.

There are more great features of the American Express Blue card to explore. With the Blue card you have great fraud protection online and off. You will not be held responsible for any unauthorized charges under any condition. An online year end summary gives you 24 hours access to important information about your credit card account. You can download the summary, print it out and separate charges by date, merchant name, charge amount and review charges made within a category. The summary is an excellent tool for preparing taxes and budgeting.

Do you want more? Well, how about 24/7 customer service and 90 day return protection. When a merchant will not take back a designated item within 90 days, American Express will refund the purchase price up to $300 per item and a maximum of $1000 annually per credit card account. You will also get buying assurance, so you can shop worry free, knowing that the original product warranty will be matched for an additional year, on warranties of 5 years or less. There is also the Purchase Protection Plan, which protects eligible purchases made with the Blue card against accidental damage and theft for 90 days after the purchase of your product. You will get car rental loss and damage insurance when you use your card for automobile rentals, Emergency Card Replacement, Travel Accident Insurance, and Global Assist Hotline, which assists you with medical, legal, financial or other emergency assistance when you travel more than 100 miles from home.

Overall, the American Express Blue card is an ideal financial companion for daily credit card usage. Its versatility as a credit card is readily discerned by reading the previously mentioned benefits and features. It is a credit card that easily complements your financial portfolio and should be among the credit cards you consider the next time you are in the market for a credit card.


