3 Ways Yoga Can Benefit The Businessperson

  The lot of a modern businessman is a stressful one and there is always so much to do.  It would take a pretty compelling set of reasons to convince a successful businessman (or even an unsuccessful one) to add something else to an already packed schedule, so why would he even think about regular Yoga classes.  In this article we examine the three main benefits of Yoga and how they apply to the busy businessperson.

Benefit Number One:  Physical Health

  All business-mans ultimate goal is to become wealthy isn't it?  Have you ever heard the saying that your health is your wealth?  Believe me it is true.  No matter how much money you have you cannot benefit from it if you are dead and personal health is often neglected in today's busy corporate world.  But the question is not whether one can afford the time for exercise to become healthy; it is whether they can afford not to.  Health is a shifting scale - you are not either healthy or dead.  It's important to think about how much your level of health affects your work.  A healthy body will allow you to concentrate more, work harder and increase the time you spend productively.
  
  Yoga is the perfect way for a businessman to look after their physical wellbeing.  Because the exercises are so incredibly low impact they can be performed even by the most out of shape person, and the more regularly they are performed the better that person's health will become.  Yoga is a very efficient method of releasing tension and stress.  During a workday certain blockages develop around the body and many of our vital organs do not get the full amount of oxygen and nutrients that they need to function at peak efficiency.  Yoga stretches different muscles groups in certain ways that will lead to these blockages being released and the blood flow bringing the bodies organs all the oxygen and nutrients they need.

  Yoga's health benefits are both immediate and long term.  In the short term blood flow is increased and the body functions better because it is achieving the nutrients it requires.  Tension is also released from muscles and the bodies lymphatic system is able to more effectively deal with waste products.  In the longer term these will be ongoing benefits and the digestive system will also function more efficiently, which has innumerable health benefits.  The general balance, co-ordination and flexibility will also be greatly enhanced.

Benefit Number Two:  Mental Health

  Have you ever considered the importance of a breath?  We know that when someone stops breathing they die, and even this simplistic understanding should tell us how important it is to breath.  But breathing properly is often ignored.  It is vital not only for the numerous health benefits, but also for the strong mental advantages it allows us.

  Yoga sessions will usually begin with a standing, breathing exercise.  The simple process of taking in a deep breath and releasing it slowly is incredibly calming and the basis of the breathing exercises that are a vital backbone to the Yoga discipline.  The key to this breathing is that it draws our attention to the one simple action of breathing.  We become very aware of the life giving benefit of a deep and controlled breathing cycle and are able to achieve a level of calmness that we often don't seek out in our everyday lives.  That calmness itself is a stepping-stone to achieving focus.

  The ability to focus is probably the single most important primary skill in a work environment.  There is always so much going on around us and so much that needs to be done that it is difficult to focus on the single task we are doing because of the multitude of things 'in the back of our mind'.  Regular Yoga teaches techniques to quickly clear the mind of all these other distractions and then focus our mental efforts on a single task.  It is also a great provider of personal discipline.  The self-discipline that is learned from focusing on the body and becoming master of oneself is a key benefit of Yoga.

Benefit Number Three:  Happiness

  Happiness is a goal that is often sacrificed in the short term in exchange for some mystical point in the future when everything will come together and be okay.  Yoga doesn't move you any closer to that mystical time, but because you develop such a strong sense of self and connection with yourself, it is common to become more content with your current situation.  You will find that the more you practise Yoga the more you will be comfortable spending time alone as well as amongst other people.  Your sense of self worth will increase and you will perform better in social situations.  This is perhaps the most important gift that Yoga will give to you.

PPPPP

Word Count 819
