Dahn yoga for the soul


Yoga is widespread and is continuously being developed today. Millions of people around the world are into this activity. Its influence is vast and is constantly increasing. Of the so many forms of Yoga, hatha yoga is by far the most common form. 

It involves both the breathing control mechanism and the physical exercise and postures combined. This exercise allows optimized blood circulation and improves one’s flexibility, stamina, strength and vitality. 

Moreover, it is also a form of peaceful mediation that contributes to self-awareness and gives an extra energy that makes you have a warm perspective of life. Various centers are located and established on cities to promote awareness.
 
However, one may not need a tutor or a teacher in order to learn or perform Yoga. One can simply look for a book or find an appropriate DVD or video to suit your need. Aside from hatha Yoga, there exists another kind of Yoga. it is known as Dhan Yoga. 

It is also referred to as Dahn Hak ot Dahnak. It started as an early form of Korean instruction program that aims to teach the people on how to expand and widen both the body and mind. For a certain period of time, it has been discovered that it had vanished but was later on rediscovered and its first center was established on Korea. 

It was in 1991 that Dahn Yoga was brought into the United States. There are also existing centers there that have been established as time went by. Dahn Yoga does not only focus on the fitness aspects of Yoga. 

It also educates the person on the principles and concepts on how the energy acts or moves in the body. It also teaches that ageing and weakening of the body is caused by stress. And removing stress will definitely improve one’s health and prolong his life. They believe that one should know how to improve and develop that energy flow inside the body.
 
Through this, health is efficiently monitored and safeguarded. With Dahn Yoga, one must know how to communicate and correspond to his physical body. 

They also believe that our body has its natural healing power. And this natural healing ability can only be achieved when one has stimulated that certain energy that connects the body to the conscious mind. 

Through deep stretching, breathing methods and meditation, Dhan Yoga promotes physical, mental, and spiritual healing and to connect us into our spiritual selves. It promotes body relaxation and the discovery of inner consciousness. 

It gives a life away and free from stress and anxiety and a life which has self-control and enhanced concentration.

Through meditation and breath work, energy is accumulated in the body. As a result, the functioning of the internal organs and systems in the body is enhanced. 

Moreover, the toxins and possible threats of disorder is hindered in a way. Then the feeling of better physique and well-being is achieved. This, in turn, boosts self-confidence and positive thinking. A new self is realized and released from addictive behaviors. 

By the integration of the body and mind, latent abilities are realized and goals are set.  In addition, Dahn Yoga practitioners sometimes volunteer teaching and training without payment. Dahn Yoga is altogether a group that is willing to promote healthy well-being, a happy mind, and a peaceful community. 
