The Evolution of Kriya Yoga


Kriya Yoga is a process of mental purification that teaches meditation through 
techniques.

The fundamental belief of Kriya Yoga is that all of us are miniature version of the 
whole cosmos, a microcosm or an evolution of a new world within the microcosmic 
world. 

The followers of Kriya yoga also believes that the most holy supreme creator is a 
part of us hiding beneath our body, and activating every action through the breath.

The name Kriya is meant as any work “kri” is being done by the power of the 
indwelling soul “ya”.

The different cosmic forces controlling, air, fire, water and earth also controls the 
different activities that we do, namely, religious activities, relationship with everyone 
and everything, food, pregnancy, and everything performed by the human body.

Yoga on the other hand is the conjoining of these correspondences between 
microcosms and macrocosms. It is the full acceptance and belief behind the union 
and interaction of the individual self and the supreme self.

The study and science of Kriya yoga has a divine origin and was not created by 
human means and intellect.

The modernization for this ancient yoga meditation method has begun in the 1860’s 
with Babaji and has been handed down to the present Kriya yoga lineage of masters 
directly through the Master to disciple method of teaching.

The disciplined path of Kriya Yoga consists of many different kinds of teaching with 
different angles to it. One looks at it as a process of beginning with self introspection 
through breathing controls.

It is also believed in Kriya yoga that that by enlightening the three qualities of light, 
vibration and sound simultaneously with proper concentration, posture and breathing 
through application of a series of techniques, a Kriya yoga disciple is able to 
penetrate the deepest levels of the unconscious mind.

Through this they can communicate with their inner gods and obtain a fulfilling 
calmness within them.

The process of purification is attained through diligent practice. The first thing to do 
is have the mind calmed and freed from any internal chatter by developing the 
practice of feeble breathing. 

Then secondly the very process of observation of pulse rhythm and vibrations in the body enables the 
seeker to extract the bondage of subtle desires

A deeper understanding of the triple divine qualities leads to a chiseled concentration 
or a focused mind, therefore preparing the seeker to explore thoughtlessness and 
inner truth.

All people are mired in the delusion and illusion due to the duality of creation. We are 
seeking liberation from the phenomenal suffering due to the miseries from 
ignorance, desire and faulty actions. One should be able to realize that the supreme 
creator is hiding within and as a self of all beings.

Kriya Yoga provides us with the easiest ways to unfold this lurking truth and unravel 
the deepest mysteries of godhood from within us.

Kriya yoga teaches breath control and calmness and it aims for well self realization 
within one lifetime.

Kriya yoga is a non-sectarian group and teaches that work is worship and whatever 
you do is from and for the Supreme Being and creator. It teaches about the different 
beliefs of the origin, destiny and evolution of souls.

A Kriya Yoga disciple believes in direct and immediate spiritual experience and is only 
taught through direct contact with the teacher.
