Kundalini Yoga and the Awakening

 
The most powerful yoga is known as the Kundalini Yoga. It is powerful that it was called the mother of all the Styles of Yoga. This type of yoga awakens the base of our spine which is known as the Muladhara Chakra. 

The word Kundalini was derived from kunda which means “pot”. Kundalini Sadhna is described to be the coiled energy that looks like a serpent which has three and a half coils which are resting at the bottom of the spine. The three coils in Kundalini Yoga are known as the three Gunas which are the Sattva, Rajas, Tamas. The VIkritis represent the half coil. 

In anatomy, the kundalini is found in the perineum region of our body. For the males, it is found between the testicles and the rectum. For the female, it is found between the clitoris and the vagina. 

Kundalini Yoga is also known as the symbol of equality and power for both genders. The masculine power is known to be Siva and Sakti for the females. They become the elemental source of power and energy when they are united. The union of Siva and Sakti occurs in the brain which gives us the sense of feeling and affection, energy, love. This means Kundalini Yoga is good to eliminate the feeling of sorrow, depression, anger and jealousy. 

Kundalini Yoga gives reward to Yogis who maintain unity awareness and spiritual transformation. The Kundalini produces a hissing sound when it is awakened. It sounds just like a beaten serpent as it goes from the Muladhara Chakra to the Brahma Nadi and to the Sahasrara Chakra.

In the year 1969, Yogi Bhajan introduced Kundalini Yoga. It includes the practices of the common Mantra, meditation, chanting, breathing and the classic poses. This type of yoga actually focuses more on chanting and breathing. It does not really concentrate in the Kundalini Yoga Poses alone. 

If you are curious about Kundalini Yoga, it is good to know the path it takes. One thing you need to understand is the Nervous System and the Spinal Cord. These two are the main focus of Kundalini Yoga. It targets your Spinal Cord and the Nervous System. 

The Nervous System as we all know is the main control or the center of our body. The Nervous System is responsible for the imaginations, thoughts, intelligence and memory that we have. The Nervous System composes of the brain, the nerves and most especially the Spinal Cord which gives us posture and stand. The Spinal Cord is made up of delicate nerves and tissues that is why we need to take care of it. Kundalini Yoga will be the most appropriate practice for this.

The infamous Kundalini awakening is not that easy to learn. It is also something that we can find or learn in books. If there was, you might be confused or perplexed in learning the process. If you want to master Kundalini awakening, it should be based on experience. After series of trials and sessions, you will find out that Kundalini awakening took place and it was all because you were just too eager and concentrated to learn it. 

Now what you have to do is grab that amazing concentration and start working on your Nervous System and Spinal Cord. If you want to stay healthy and maintain a good posture, Kundalini Yoga is just waiting for you to practice it.


