Tantric yoga knows it all


Tantric Yoga highlights the exaltation of the physical being more than anything else. 

Tantra is known to be the concept that arises out of this kind of commitment to oneself, which is the basis of Tantra. And the supporters of this side of belief are called tantrics. These people not only worship the physical state but also got to any degree to please the body to achieve occult powers.

As of this time, it is not widely practiced and used in India. And it survived only in some parts of India in the middle of the jungles and hills of the Himalayas.

However, there are many clashes about its origin and source. Some have researched and discovered that the Pre-Aryans are the originators and others transcribe it to the norms of the early people. It is known to have risen at the same time Buddhism was flourishing. And because of this, some Buddhists had incorporated and adopted some of the Tantric signs and symbols.

And later on, it has grown to form a faction or guild. Like the Vedas, Tantras are composed of collections of poems and verses that speak of the elaborate methods on the righteous and proper of worship and adoration.

Often, some people perceive them as obscure and mystical in sense that is usually addressed to the persons who perform or do tantric acts. These persons are usually, sadhakas. These Sadhakas live a very simple life. And the practice of Yoga is like a prayer for them. He usually meditates in the lone and secluded places in the countryside far, far away from the madding society. His robes and his begging bowl distinguish him. He also sells medicine, shells, charms and herbal pieces.

This may be his good side but the other half lingers in vicious outrages and he inflicts austerities upon himself. The various positions of love-making and sex itself outline a significant principle of tantrism. 

According to some, there is a way of acquiring sidhi. This is through practicing Kundalini or serpent’s power. It says that in order to awaken the serpent, one must practice and perform a certain type of Yoga or mediation. Through this, the serpent is said to arise gradually. With constant practice, the serpent uncoils and awakens which in return, explodes a vast from of energy. As the process continues, the skin is becoming hot and sweating occurs until a stinging sensation is achieved or experienced. Once this is attained, it is said to be so prevailing that it may destroy the person if not controlled.

Soon, it rises and when it has come to its limit or peak, one feels absolute pleasure. And once this is attained, he therefore becomes a sage or Sadhu. Tantrism also involves the dissipated way of acquiring supernatural powers. 

It is said that in order to gain deliverance, one must do everything that he wants to do even though it is immoral or prohibited. 

It is also said that some tantric yoga exercises aids and improves the general and sexual health. With healthy reproductive organs, one can have improved well being and it is favorable for sexual activities. It is like the respiratory system, which needs air to function. 

There are various exercises, both physical and spiritual which helps in integrating the body, mind and spirit into one. These different exercises are good to start each day with and favorable before going to bed. 

Through this, the physiological functions of the body are stimulated and therefore revitalizes the whole well being of a person.


