What is yoga?


Yoga is extensively known as a form of exercise that stretches and strengthens the 
body through various poses known as ASANAS. For other people yoga is the 
realization of inner self satisfaction. For other it is a religion that the believe and 
must follow.

All of this statement makes it hard to really make a full realization of what yoga is. 
So what is yoga?

Yoga goes far beyond just mere exercises full of awkward routines. Yoga is the union 
of mind, spirit and body. Yoga comes from the Hindu philosophy used to attain 
spiritual insight and harmony.

What is yoga? Yoga generally refers to the common use of a system of exercises that 
is practiced as part of this discipline.

The word is derived from the Sanskrit “yeung”, which means to join. A yoke as used 
on oxen is closely related, but also the same root gives us "join", "junction", "junta",
"adjust", "joust", and "juxapose" to name a few.

There are many institutions of yoga all of which have their own unique practices and 
beliefs. But in this article we have listed down the five most common yoga practices.

However, schools and paths have been established with many different variations 
that aren't listed here. 

HATHA: this is the most popular variety of yoga and one that has been commonly 
taught for years. So what is yoga for them? For them it is perfecting the mind by 
way of perfecting the body.

With this technique many asanas or postures, breathing techniques and meditations 
are used.

ASHTANGA: this yoga is another popular type they are much faster than the other 
schools. What is yoga for ashtanga’s?

For them yoga can be considered as a type of aerobic yoga for they instill quick and 
smooth transitions between poses.

KUNDALINI: This school is focused on awakening and focusing what is known as 
kundalini energy. Kundalini energy is most easily compared to life energy that lies 
 dormant in our bodies. It is commonly represented by a coiled snake.

MANTRA: this type of yoga is focused on calming the mind and body through the 
usage of words and sounds. The well known 'om' chant is commonly heard in this 
school.

TANTRA: This type of school is well known by way of its focus on sexual spirituality.
They also focus on kundalini energy, although their intent for awakening it is much 
different from the Kundalini practice. 

Yoga is a very diverse practice, no matter which school you choose. People young 
and old can gain many benefits from regular yoga practices, and asanas can be 
adjusted to fit physical limitations and other complications.

If you want a break from treadmills, weight rooms, or the pool, take a look at yoga. 
Not only are you striving towards physical well being, you are striving towards 
spiritual well being as well.

Traditionally, yoga consists of eight fundamental paths: Karma Yoga, Bhakti Yoga, 
Jnana Yoga, Hatha Yoga, Purna Yoga, Tantra Yoga, Maha Yoga and Ashtanga or Raja 
Yoga. In the western world, the term yoga often refers to Hatha yoga and its 
postures, movements, and breathing techniques.

The ultimate goal of yoga is the attainment of liberation from worldly suffering and 
the cycle of birth and death. Yoga entails mastery over the body, mind, and 
emotional self, and transcendence of desire. It is said to lead gradually to knowledge 
of the true nature of reality. 
