Why Yoga is Important For An Office Worker

  Yoga and office workers don't usually mix, but they should.  When you work in an office you will usually be spending a lot of time hunched over a keyboard and sitting in a seat.  It can also be an environment that is prone to produce a whole heap of stress and very few outlets to release it.  In this article we examine how these things are bad for your general health and how Yoga can help.

  Let's start with a little bit about what Yoga is.  At it's simplest level it is a very effective form of exercise.  It involves flexing the body into static poses and holding them which is a fantastic method of increasing blood flow and circulation through various choke points in the body.  

  Yoga also puts a lot of emphasis on the correct patterns of breathing which allows you body to get the most benefit from each breath of air we take.  Expanding from this we take care to un-clutter our thoughts when we are performing Yoga and the more advancement someone makes with the discipline the more focussed and calm they will become.  Have you ever told someone to take a breath to calm him or her down?  With Yoga it is the same principle.

  So how does this all help our office worker?

  An office environment is usually neither a calm nor a healthy place.  Most office workers will spend the majority of their day stuck in a chair and often staring at a computer screen or hunched over paperwork or a keyboard.  This causes a lot of tension to well up, particularly in the back and shoulders.  The legs are also often denied a supply of fresh blood by the long hours spend sitting down.  

  Yoga forces the body to move in ways it would not usually do in an office environment.  This can be a very effective way of clearing choke points and allowing circulation to resume it's normal flow.  The blood takes valuable supplies of oxygen and nutrients with it wherever it goes and without these supplies the organs cannot operate properly.  The more starved the organs become the sicker we will become, so clearly restoring blood flow to the areas that are being deprived of it is an important health priority.

  Did you know that most diseases are directly caused or antagonized by stress?  It's true, and it's a much more serious problem than most people ever know.  In an office environment this is even more so.  The pressure of deadlines, the constant activity and the need to constantly be on the move are all primary factors in escalating stress levels.

  imagine for a moment - stopping.  Forget about all the things that you need to get done in the next week.  Forget about the rent payment and the assignment you have to finish.  Forget about your boss and your family and concentrate on one thing.  Breathing.  Yoga is as much a mental discipline as it is a physical one and it will teach you to clear your thoughts and focus on the activity at hand.  While you will certainly benefit from the health benefits of Yoga, the mental benefits can be truly life changing.  People who learn Yoga usually deal with stress better and are able to calm and centre themselves when there is turmoil all around them.

  If you think these benefits would make your life easier then you owe it to yourself to start learning Yoga as soon as possible.

PPPPP

Word count 587
