Yoga, learn the basics


For you to learn what yoga are you should know first what the real meaning of yoga 
is. So what is Yoga?

Yoga is present for more that 3,000 years and originated from the land of India. The 
word yoga comes from the Sanskrit word “yuj” which means to bind, join attach and 
yoke. This also means "union, to direct and concentrate one's attention on, to use 
and apply." 

In other words, yoga is about concentrating on your mind and body to bind you to God. 

It's about disciplining yourself to balance your mind, soul, and emotions, so that you 
can connect with your individual spirit or your "jivatma", which is in turn part of the
 Supreme Universal Spirit or the "Paramatma," a.k.a. God. 

It's about focusing your energy into constructive channels. And the name of an 
individual who follows the teachings of yoga is known as a "yogi." 

In this article Yoga, learn the basics you will be exposed to the basic forms of yoga. 
There are actually lots of different types of yoga; it is not strictly a term for the 
stretchy exercise we will be discussing. The term "yoga" can refer to any of these things:

Karma yoga -- focuses on giving of oneself without expecting any reward 

Jnana yoga -- a philosophical approach to unveiling the illusions of the world 

Bhakti yoga -- channeling emotional energy into one's spiritual practice 

Rhaja yoga -- focuses on concentration and mind control 

As there are many styles of dance, so are there many forms of yoga that you should 
learn. In fact, a new one might be developing right now, as a teacher puts his or her 
own stamp on a specific technique. 

Current popular yoga styles include, but are not limited to:

Gentle yoga, which is sometimes also called by the generic name "hatha yoga" --
this usage of "hatha" is debatable; some folks believe the term should only be used 
to refer to the general idea for all physical yogas, while others use it colloquially to 
refer to the gentler style. 

In Gentle yoga, the focus is on long stretches and flexibility, with slow, deep 
breathing (yogic breathing is known as "Pranayama"). This can be very soothing for 
the mind -- it is the kind of mellow style most people picture when they think of yoga.

Kundalini yoga, which works on the premise that the body has eight "chakras," and 
through use of "breath of fire" (rapid breathing), one can heat up the body from the 
bottom up, eventually "raising kundalini" to achieve a feeling of high enlightenment.

Power yoga, which is also known by the Sanskrit term Vinyasa yoga (a "vinyasa" 
is a series of rapid movements which warm up the body all over). This is a very 
active form of yoga, in which a person is moves quickly through the poses (called 
"Asanas"), not holding them as long as in other styles. 

It is virtually guaranteed that you will sweat a lot in this; it is not for the faint 
of heart and gives a real challenge to the muscles

To learn yoga you must put your full attitude and spirit into it. This not a gym 
exercises where you can just stride through when you are already feeling fat. 

Yoga is much more into the spiritual well being that being into the physical fitness. 
