Let’s do the Yoga Moves… 


Madonna does it. Cameron Diaz, Reese Witherspoon, Katie Holmes and Janet Jackson also do it. These famous celebrities are working out the yoga moves. But this is not the reason why you should do yoga moves. The reason that you should try the classical yoga moves is simple: It will make you feel active with an over all good feeling.

Yoga is an ancient system of movements for personal development of the mind and body. Yoga practitioners viewed it as an all-encompassing lifestyle, emphasizing compassion, non-violence and inner peace. It consists of various yoga moves and poses. 

With its gentle movements, yoga moves have been an ideal method for relaxation and body stimulation. Moreover, performing the yoga moves helps you stay focused and awake during your work day. 

Like any exercise, you can do different yoga moves while seated at your desk. It also starts with the basics of breathing. However, there are some yoga moves that are difficult, but it’s not necessary to twist your body into any pose that’s not comfy for you.  

Below are some of the easy to do yoga moves:

1.The Downward- Facing Dog Pose

This yoga move is said to be the top dog of all poses. It starts with hands and knees. Spread your palms out with the pinkies about an inch from each side of your mat. Press your hips up and back. Slowly lower your heels toward the floor. Your body should be in an inverted "V" shape. Breathe deeply, and concentrate on stretching your heels closer to the ground, contracting your stomach muscles and lifting your butt higher toward the sky. Make sure to keep your head in line with your spine by looking back toward your knees. Stay in this position for about a minute.

2. Tree Pose

This is a simple but powerful pose that needs balance and grace.

Stand straight with your legs together. Bend your left leg and place the left foot on the inner right thigh your left toes should point toward the floor and the left knee points out. With your hands on your hips, try and even them out so they are more-or-less level and your torso is facing straight ahead. Once you feel balanced place your hands in a prayer position in front of your chest and then slowly lift your arms above your head, keeping the palms together. Gaze softly at a point in front of you and breathe deeply, holding for about 30 seconds. Return to the starting position and reverse legs.
 

3. Half Bridge Pose

Finally, this pose will help you improve your posture. Lie flat on your back with your arms at your side palms facing down, and knees bent with heels as close to your buttocks as possible. On an exhalation, push your feet and arms into the floor and lift your hips into the air so your butt rises off the ground and your thighs are parallel to the floor. Do not clench your cheeks but rather concentrate on extending your knees toward the wall in front of you, keeping your thighs and feet parallel. Roll your shoulders underneath you so your arms move toward each other and clasp your hands together. Stay in this pose for about a minute, releasing on an exhale. 

Practice these yoga moves for a few weeks, and see how much better you feel!

