Your Basic Yoga Equipment


One good thing about yoga is that it can be practiced almost anywhere, without all 
those yoga equipments, and by all people of all ages.

When doing yoga it is best to wear loose and comfortable clothing. Yoga is 
traditionally done and practiced barefoot, but if this does not suit you, you 
can just wear socks or soft-shoes.

It is also best to practice yoga on an empty stomach. Empty your stomach, clean 
your nostril and throat, and consume a glass of warm water 15 minutes before you start. 

You may drill on energy bars, fruits or drink a glass of water an hour before class to 
avoid getting hungry or dehydrated during yoga sessions.

It is said earlier that you basically don’t need anything in order to practice yoga. All 
you need is the desire and the attitude to really be into yoga and expand your self 
awareness. 

But this does not completely eliminate the need for different yoga equipment. This 
yoga equipment helps you do your postures properly.

It helps you achieve the proper alignment, balance and makes the pose a little bit 
easier to do. The use of Yoga equipments also lessen out the stress and strain from 
doing your yoga positions.

Yoga equipments help you support your muscles and refrains you from any muscle 
injuries. Yoga equipment also helps to save energy by exerting less effort on a pose.

After a thousand of years in existence, Yoga has already been part of everybody’s 
lifestyle from any part of the world. From India, yoga has evolved through the years 
and reaches the United States and other countries extending a different yet proven 
effective form of achieving self balance that results to utmost health be it physical,
mental or spiritual.

Now millions of people around the world practice Yoga to cope with stress, feel 
renewed and energized, release tension, achieve a healthier and fitter body and gain 
a deep sense of self-knowledge.

Doing yoga is not just about postures, there is also one vital part of yoga that we can 
never live without, and these are yoga equipments.

When starting out yoga you should know the basic yoga equipments that you will need.

YOGA MATS: these yoga equipment provides cushioning on a hard floor, this 
specially needed if your yoga studio floor is made up of cement or hard wood floor. 

This yoga equipment is also provide traction for your hand and feet thus prevents 
you from slipping or sliding on a wrong position when your doing your yoga postures

YOGA BOLSTERS: This yoga equipment provides support for your spine, abdomen 
and legs in a number of different poses.

Yoga bolsters helps you achieve the utmost result of your practice.

YOGA BLANKETS: this yoga equipment helps you feel relaxed and comfortable which 
is essential in the practice of yoga.

Yoga Mats also provides added warmth and softness to your yoga mat, making you 
feel more relaxed and comfortable. 

YOGA STRAPS: this yoga equipment is either made out of cotton or nylon. This 
allows you to grasp your body part which you cannot.

Yoga straps give you added flexibility and holds your pose a little bit much longer.

Yoga equipment may not be a requirement for doing yoga but through times they 
have been proven to be helpful in their own simple ways.

They have been useful to yoga practitioners especially to those who are suffering 
from ailments and the elderly. 

Most yoga equipments are made to provide support to help you feel relaxed and feel 
deeper into the pose or do the pose better.




