Yoga Mats – Feel its Comfort


Yoga mats are very important in our every day practice. In fact, there are several types of yoga mats that are available in the market. You can choose from a variety of yoga mats that will depend on the type of yoga you want. 

If you want a mat that is perfect to cover your practice area and provide steadiness when practicing the poses, Sticky Mats is just right for you. These yoga mats are thinly made and also comes in a variety of colors. It has a light feature that makes it easy for you to carry during a class. 

The good thing about these yoga mats is that it has a guide which is indicated by marks that shows you where to place your feet and hand. If you are a beginner, of course you are not yet oriented and used to the hand and foot placements. These yoga mats are just perfect in mastering those poses. These mats are extensively helpful in preventing you to slip off and sliding.

However, there is a style on how to keep the mat sticky. The technique is to sprinkle a small amount of water on the mat and let it air dry. Using sticky mats is appropriate and applicable to all types of yoga. 

There are also those ultra thick sticky mats which are known as the Ultra Double Thickness Mats. These yoga mats provide cushioning and stability which is very useful in applying to some certain poses. These ultra thick yoga mats are perfect for Ashtanga practitioners because they have the tendency to move or jump from one pose to another.

Most people love using the ultra thick yoga mats because it provides the most convenient cushioning that no other mats can give. Practitioners use these mats in their classes. 

Travel Mats, as the name implies is perfect for traveling. If you are the travel-type person and couldn’t get away with your daily dosage of yoga exercise, this would be the perfect choice. Travel mats can be thrown in your luggage or suitcase when you are on a trip or on a vacation. 

Travel mats are exclusively made because it should be handy. Its thin property is perfect to bring anywhere. You can just fold it and shoot it in your bag and you’re on the go. 

If you are practicing Ashtanga or Bikram Yoga, Cotton Mats are perfect for you. Cotton Mats are made for absorbing your sweat. These cotton mats will help you to stay in shape and not slip off. If your mat is not absorbent, then it is quite dangerous because wet surface can be very slippery. The damp mat is good for gripping so that your feet and hands stay just where you place them. 

The Yoga Mat Bag is a part of your daily yoga activity. It is perfect for carrying your yoga mats to work, class or anywhere you want to go. You don’t have to miss as session of your yoga practice especially if it’s something you can’t live without.

The yoga mat bag has enough space for your extra shirts, water bottle and other accessories. With your Yoga Mat Bag, you are sure that you don’t leave any.

Now that the different mats are introduced, it’s all up to you to choose the best yoga mats that is ideal for the type of yoga you wish to practice. 

