Yoga Poses And What They Achieve

  Yoga has been described as a science which seeks to achieve the harmonious and balanced development of the body, mind and soul.  It is a system which allows us to bring culture, balance and happiness to ourselves.  It works via a need for strong mental discipline and the ancient theories, which it is based on regarding the interconnection between the mind and body, are now being regularly supported by modern scientific theory.  Yoga consists of a number of different exercises or poses.

  Examples of these poses are the cat and cow poses.  Both are connected and begin with you on all fours on the floor.  Arching the back upwards like a cornered cat places you in the cat pose and the reverse, lowering the back puts you into the cow pose.

  Another common form of exercise is a forward bend that will help in the stretching of the lower back and hamstring muscles.  There are a number of other advantages to forward bends:  They release tension in the back neck and shoulder as well as increasing the flexibility of the spine.  Forward bends can be uncomfortable if you have any injuries in the next or back area, but regularly performing will help assists in the recovery of these injuries and even strengthen the area for the future.

  The counterpart of a forward bend is a back bend.  These open up the chest, hips and rib cage area.  As well as strengthening the arms, they also provide increased strength and flexibility to the shoulders.  This type of exercise is fantastic at increasing the stability of the spine, but is also useful for relieving built up tension along the front of the body and the hips.  The relationship between back and forward bends is a perfect example of the importance of the bodies balance in Yoga.  

  Hatha Yoga poses were developed in India during the fifteenth century.  They are designed as an aid to relaxation and healing and usually introduced with a concept of "the contemplation of one reality".  The result of using these exercises properly and in conjunction with suitable breathing exercises and meditation is an increase in vitality, physical health and a stronger mental health.  Hatha Yoga exercises have become a part of numerous different Yoga disciplines over the years and it's quite common to see exercises such as the half moon posture, the bow posture of the salutation posture even if it is not Hatha Yoga you are practising.  This is because the principles of Yoga and the movements and balances required are fairly consistent from one discipline to another.
  
  Another simple Yoga exercise is doing the twist.  Twists will strengthen and stretch your back or abdominal muscles and help to increase the flexibility of your spine.  They also aid in increasing your bodies circulation that brings oxygen supplies to your cells.  This fresh blood and oxygen supply that is released as you twist will improve the functioning of your bodies internal organs.

  A yoga session will often begin with a standing pose.  These are a very good low impact, low stress starting point for a Yoga session.  Standing poses benefit the legs and hips and help provide a sense of centring, balance and of course strength to the legs themselves.  The end of a Yoga session is usually marked by a group of poses known as Relation and Restorative Poses.  This group of exercises is designed to give the positive energies and forces released by the Yoga session to move throughout your body and benefit you completely.

PPPPP

Word count 590
