How to Manage Yoga positions


There are a lot of yoga positions and poses that is built to improve posture. 

Yoga positions have a lot of benefits such that it aims to improve our posture and give us a straight figure. 

Sometimes, we might not notice our selves in a crooked figure. If we practice that for a long time and not do anything about it, expect to have a crooked bone in the future. 

Yoga positions are good to strengthen our body giving focus to the thighs, knees and the ankles. If you get uses to practicing yoga positions everyday, it is expected that your bones respond immediately. 

The abdomen and the buttocks is considered a major turn on for both genders. For the male, it is ideal to keep up a good abdomen of the abs. This makes it more appealing to the women. 
Having a good butt matters to some women too, a lot of them are practicing in order to gain a lot of figure and shape in their body.

Yoga positions amazingly relieve sciatica. These are some pain that cannot be prevented. If you do yoga once in a while and even regularly, perhaps you will not feel any back or muscle pain. 

Here are some techniques on how to maintain a good yoga position. Just follow these steps in order for you to fully understand yoga positions and be able to execute it in the proper manner.

1. You should stand with the bases of your big toes touching and the heels should be slightly apart. You must lift and spread your toes slowly and the balls of your feet too. Then after, you need to lay them softly down on the floor. Rock yourself back and forth and even side to side. You may gradually reduce this swaying to maintain a standstill, with your weight balanced evenly on your feet.

2. Hardening your thigh muscles and then lifting the knee caps is next. Do it without hardening your lower belly. Lift the inner ankles to make stronger the internal arches, then picture a line of energy all the way up along your inner thighs up to your groins. From there through the core of your neck, torso, and head, and out through the crown of your head. You should turn the upper thighs slowly inward. Make your tailbone longer toward the floor and raise the pubis in the direction of the navel.
   
3. Push your shoulder blades into your back, then broaden them crossways and discharge them down your back. Without roughly pushing your lower front ribs forward, lift the top of your sternum straight toward the ceiling. Broaden your collarbones. Suspend your arms alongside the torso.

4. You should balance the crown of your head unswervingly over the middle of your pelvis, with the base of your chin analogous to the floor, throat soft, and the tongue broad and plane on the floor of your mouth. Make your eyes look softer.

5. Tadasana is usually the initial yoga position for all the standing poses. Applying Tansana is useful especially in applying the poses. Staying in the pose for 30 seconds up to 1 minute, then breathing easily keeps it satisfactory. 

Just follow these simple figures and you are sure that you are doing the right yoga positions. 

