How to find the Right Yoga Bolsters


Yoga has been part of our lives when it comes to tension and stress relief. Through 
yoga we gain a deeper knowledge and understanding of oneself. It also serves as a 
great tool to stay healthy and prevent certain diseases. 

Yoga through the years of repeatedly usage has become a popular alternative 
medicine. Today it is now used to cure chronic diseases and ailments in the different 
body systems. It includes the nervous, circulatory, endocrine, respiratory, digestive, 
reproductive and the musculoskeletal system.

Yoga can be practiced by anyone, including the elderly and those that have or suffers 
from certain injuries. The use of specific yoga equipments can help people who are 
not perfectly capable of doing yoga. The use of yoga Equipment can help you achieve 
the maximum physical and mental results of your practice.

One of the best examples of yoga equipments is the Yoga bolsters.

Yoga bolsters are being used in various styles of yoga like the Bikram, Ananda and 
Kripalu yoga. These are yoga form that needs much of your yoga bolsters for they 
instill more use of extensive yoga poses. 

Yoga bolsters provide support for the back, abdomen and legs. Yoga bolsters also 
aids in the proper alignment of the body and the stack of spinal vertebrae. 

It is also and effective way to cushion and relieve tension in your lower body and 
upper body, the neck and the abdomen when doing your poses.

It aids yoga master in doing supine and passive yoga positions. Putting your yoga 
bolsters on top of your mat provides added cushioning and support to your lower 
body and makes your yoga session more comfortable.

Yoga bolsters are light and can be easily carried and stored at the corner of your 
room. It can easily fit in to your drawer or a closet without taking much space.

Yoga bolsters also comes in a variety of size, shapes, colors and materials which is 
designed to fit your need and preference.

Different sellers offer cylindrical, rectangular, Zafu, and a lot of other types of Yoga 
Bolsters.

Sometime people buying yoga bolsters are quite confused on whether to buy 
cylindrical or rectangular yoga bolsters. 

So here are some brief discussions on the difference between this two. But if you are 
into yoga class and like the yoga bolsters that you are using then you can buy the type you use.

Cylindrical bolsters are a larger and much more firm that the rectangular yoga bolsters.

Cylindrical yoga bolsters are heavier than the rectangular ones, owing the fact that 
they have different respective filling materials with different weights.

You can do most things equally well with either kind of Bolster, but the different 
shapes do have marginal advantages for certain poses.

Yoga Bolsters are used for comfort in different positions, and come in a variety of 
shapes and sizes to provide that extra level of comfort and support. Placed under 
knees, ankles, or neck, these Bolsters help to relieve muscle strain during difficult poses. 

The round bolsters and Rectangle Bolster props, supports and encourages your body 
to stretch, relax and open the areas that need it most.

What ever kind of bolsters that you need, I am sure that you will be able to find one 
that will suit your needs. 

If ever nothing would fit you in yoga store, make one of your own or find somebody 
who can make them, giving you a much more flexibility and customization in getting 
the yoga bolsters that you like.
