Planning for a yoga retreat…


Excited to join a yoga retreat? Perhaps you need to plan everything first, so that your retreat will be a successful one.

Here are some FAQs that will guide you in planning your yoga retreat.  

1.Why join a yoga retreat?

One of the best things about retreats is that you give yourself an ultimate treat. A yoga retreat is intended for all of us who want to have a stressful vacation while doing the activity you love, yoga. 

It is a learning experience wherein you can relax, unwind and renew your sense of health. Also, it is an opportunity to connect and share with other people with similar experiences and explore the exciting nature adventures.

    A perfect yoga retreat allows us to go more deeply into
    our yoga practice in its different aspects: postures,
    breathing, and meditation.	 

2.Who goes on a yoga retreat?

Yoga retreats are usually designed to progressively introduce the practice of yoga giving anyone the opportunity to learn on their own pace and ability. It is offered not only for yoga professionals but also to yoga students of any level. 

Family members, couples, singles with slightly more women within the age range of 24-65 years also join a retreat. Even other people who are looking for a transformative and memorable vacation experience enroll to a yoga retreat.

3.Where to spend the retreat?

Yoga retreats are offered all over the world. So, you need to decide on a particular place. You can choose a place you’re interested in exploring. Any relaxing place that is ideal for yoga. The venue can be close to the nature, in the countryside or near the sea. 

4.Do I need to get a yoga instructor?

It is a must that you get one especially for beginners. The retreats provide the opportunity for the instructor to get a better sense of your strengths and weaknesses. In this way, he will have the idea on how to guide you.

It would also be beneficial if you have attended a yoga class with the instructor before the retreat. This is for you to have a better confidence that their teaching style and approach will meet your needs.

5.Do I need to know someone else on the retreat to get the most from it?

Absolutely not, it’s normal that some of you don’t know the other. One of the good things about the retreat is that you’ll have the chance to work with other people. These people would be your best source of information, and be your friends. Also, through the yoga retreat you’ll be able to learn new techniques, and above all, have fun.

6.What to wear during the retreat?

Casual, comfortable clothing would be best. But if you are traveling somewhere unfamiliar, you can check with the retreat organizer the local weather of the place. This is to ensure you on the appropriate clothes to wear. However, in some cases clothing requirements are likely defined especially if there will be religious services.

7.What to bring on your yoga retreat?

Yoga retreats vary, some are like camping, in hotels, and others are closer to the resorts. Therefore, please ask your retreat organizer on the things you should bring. You might be advised to bring some special items like flashlights, bathing suit, yoga mats, etc. Be sure to inquire about necessary passports and visas if traveling overseas.
 
So, ready now for the breathtaking experience? Just keep in mind your purpose that is to relax, learn and have fun!
	


