The Rhett House Inn

One of the most beautiful bed and breakfast establishments in South Carolina is The Rhett House Inn, located in Beaufort, South Carolina.  A film site for several popular movies, this seventeen room, white pillared bed and breakfast is wrapped in spacious verandas where guests can relax and take in lush garden surroundings.

The beautifully restored 1820 plantation house is meticulously maintained, filled with antiques, oriental rugs, fresh flowers and fireplaces.  The property borders the Intracoastal Waterway, and offers plenty of outdoor recreation.  This includes tennis and golf as well as various water activities such as swimming.  

The Rhett House Inn offers full complimentary breakfasts and afternoon refreshments.  The room all offer televisions and VCRs and health club privileges are available. Guest in July will be able to attend the annual Water Festival in Beaufort.  Not to be left out, those who happen to be around during the month of October will be able to attend the Shrimp Festival.  These are only two of the activities this great area offers.

Today, tabby ruins, historic forts, elegant homes, majestic plantations and Gullah culture and cuisine are reminders of Beaufort SC's 500-year history. Horse-drawn carriages make their way leisurely through the narrow streets of the historic region, one of only three National Historic Landmark Districts in South Carolina and shrimps boats can frequently be seen gliding past Waterfront Park with the day's catch.

All rooms in our Beaufort South Carolina Hotel have cable television, wireless internet access, compact disc player, and private bathrooms equipped with hair dryers and robes. Many of the rooms feature fireplaces, private balconies, and jetted tubs. Guest rooms in the historic cottage have private entrances and porches-perfect for a romantic getaway in South Carolina.

The Rhett House Inn in Beaufort, South Carolina, will definitely have visitors experiencing southern hospitality at its finest.
