Title: 
5 Bankruptcy Questions To Ask Your Attorney Before Filing

Word Count:
519

Summary:
If you think that being bankrupt is the worst thing that could happen to you than think again! Yes you are right…Worst is yet to come, but of course you can control and eliminate that worst scenario by simply making correct decisions! Hiring a wrong attorney for filing your bankruptcy can be like a nightmare coming true!


Keywords:
bankruptcy,bankruptcy court,filing for bankruptcy


Article Body:
If you think that being bankrupt is the worst thing that could happen to you than think again! Yes you are right…Worst is yet to come, but of course you can control and eliminate that worst scenario by simply making correct decisions! Hiring a wrong attorney for filing your bankruptcy can be like a nightmare coming true!

So it is better that before hiring you do some research and make sure that you find an attorney who could really show you way attorney who could really show you way out from the bankruptcy mess!

Facts about selecting the Attorneys:

As most of the attorneys are usually overworked, they aren't able to give ear to full details of your case. You may feel that your attorney isn't pursuing your case the way you want him to pursue and ultimately you will feel irritated.

Many of the attorneys aren't qualified enough to lead your bankruptcy case. So such attorneys don't fulfill your expectations. Certificates are important indicators to judge whether the attorney is qualified enough or not.

Asking from friends won't take you to any good lawyer, unless your friend has gone through filing for bankruptcy but it may be useful to take advice from legal professionals.

You can even go to a bankruptcy court and observe the attorneys there. Maybe during your observation, you will find some attorneys who are good enough for you.
Once you find the attorney, you can satisfy yourself completely by asking him the right questions. A short conversation can tell you a lot about the attorney you have chosen. You can ask him about his expertise and his working and consultation hours. After conversation, you can evaluate the attorney to see if that attorney is really right for you or not!

Once you select the attorney, you must discuss with him what type of bankruptcy should you file? There are eight different types for filing bankruptcy. You attorney can best point out which type suits you for filing bankruptcy.

Secondly, you need to ask him how you can file for bankruptcy. You have to file for your bankruptcy in the state where you are living. The Attorney can prepare the necessary paperwork that would be needed to present to the courts.

Thirdly, you must know the fees that are involved in the filing for bankruptcy. The total fees will comprise of the attorney's fees plus the court fees that you need to submit to file for your bankruptcy.

Fourth, you must know where you should file your bankruptcy claim. You need to consult your attorney on how to get there and what documentation is required.
Finally you must know the after effects of filing for bankruptcy. As soon as you file for bankruptcy, creditors will receive notification from the courts and will not be allowed to contact debtor for payments. A hearing in court will be set. The case will proceed depending on type of bankruptcy filed.

Remember that this is your fight, so you have to be really involved in it and follow the case. You just cannot leave everything on the attorney!


