Title: 
Be Debt Free To live In Harmony?

Word Count:
507

Summary:
Having a mountain of debt can have a big influence on your everyday life. You may have difficulty to sleep, or can't stay focused, also lack of energy, and all that can lead to a negative attitude...


Keywords:
mortgage,bankruptcy,debt help,debt,debt management,credit card debt,personal finance,debt consolidation loans,debt free,get out of debt


Article Body:
Why you should know more about Chinese Medicine?

If you understand why Chinese medicine is superior to occidental medicine, you will be able to  solve a lot of problems beside debts.

Chinese medicine:

 Identify the source of the problem ==> Make The Patient Conscious about these problems ==> Eliminate the problem ==> Explain to the patient how to avoid this problem ==> Explain to the patient what to do to put this problem far away for him

Occidental medicine:

Identify the problem (not the source, only the most apparent) ==> Eliminate (or maybe not) the problem ==> Give the solution

It's clear now that in the second case, the patient doesn't really know the causes of his problem, and he is more likely to fall again in the same situation.

In the first case, everything is done for the patient to understand his problem at the root. He will be able to fight with more weapons, and win while in the second case, he doesn't know who, and where the menace is coming from... 

You must identify the real cause of your debts if you want to be debt free. Now that I explained to you how to deal with any thread, let me explain why so much people have so much huge debts.

The reason is that the interest rate is leading to these situations. It is inevitable, for the growth of the economy to establish interest rates, and to be able to adjust them, when it's time to do so.

Question: Do you remember the Chinese principle? How do you know that the society based on the interest rate is the most advantageous for people? 
Like the commerce is based on justice, interest rate is based on injustice, as we have seen earlier. It is the real cause of debts, and the cause of your problem right now. It is the source.

How commerce is based on justice? You will understand after reading this: You own a product A, and other human being need this product for one of these 3 reasons:

Vital Need (water, foods...)

Solve a problem (the car – train, bus, plane – for long distances;air conditioned...)

Feel Good (beauty products, health care...)

You are exchanging these product A against money. You need that money, and your customers need your products. It is justice because everybody wins.

It is exactly the opposite effect with interest.

Once you understand and start implementing this Chinese principle, you will be able to find even more causes to your problems. See here the  inevitable consequence of interest: Master/visa card, Discovery, American Express. Everybody has one, or more.

You are given the right to buy what you can't buy. What does that mean? It means that without this loan and the interest that you will pay for it, you will normally not be able to buy your car, or your house, or... Unless you win more money, or borrow from someone!


Our subject here is to find the ways to get out of that debt. But the most important is to let you control.


