Title: 
Christian Debt Consolidation Services Are Them Better?

Word Count:
391

Summary:
Debt Elimination is a subject which concern almost everybody, and a lot of companies are proposing to help consumers to get out of debt. Many of these companies are naming themselves “Christian” Debt Consolidation Services. The question which is occurring is are these legitimate companies?


Keywords:
mortgage,bankruptcy,debt help,debt,debt management,credit card debt,personal finance,debt consolidation loans,debt free,get out of debt


Article Body:
Those companies need more customers, and as I already explained in a previous article, they have very nice sales pitches, like:

“We will help you to eliminate your debts, don't worry”, “Consolidate your bills into one monthly payment without borrowing”, until “Keep your property”...

The “Christian” Debt Consolidation Services seems legitimate at the first glance, but someone who has an eagle eye on the sale process will see in that the name of “Christian” here is taken to get people in a state of confidence. 

What does it mean? It mean that by reading this word, something is happening in the customer mind, and ultimately, he will become a customer...

Actually, it is just another pitch, just more appealing to catch even more people, taking them from two sides:

1- You don't have choice,

2- You think they are better than others, that they are legitimate.

People really think that these “Christian Debt Consolidation” companies will help them.

Did we forget what does help mean?

I don't know for you, but if I want to help somebody who needs $10,000, I don't ask him to give me back $12,000 while I know that him and his family are already in troubles. This is pure injustice.

I will give him those $10,000 and when he can give them back to me, I will tell him: thanks for my $10,000. But what if he can't give me my money back?

IF he can't, he can't. When you lend money to someone in difficulties, you pertinently know that you may never see this money again. This is what we call help, and in reality, it is only justice.

I have already done that, and I will continue to do it, without asking any kind of interest.

So, before you decide to go to any of these companies, or others, like debt settlement or debt counseling companies, be sure that you know what you are doing, and more important, be sure that the company is legitimate. 

A name is only a name, what is important is people actions... 

I don't recommend to go to these companies, but what I recommend is a good money management plan instead. There is a lot of way to earn more money from your home today, with Internet. What people in debt want is not to getting out of debt! What they want is more money.


