Title: 
Debt Consolidation Service In Birmingham

Word Count:
342

Summary:
Jane was a fun loving girl from Birmingham, you could say she lived for today. She wanted all the latest fashions and gadgets and certianly was not afraid to use her credit card to pay for them.


Keywords:
debt advice, debt management, debt specialist, debt reduction, debt consolidation


Article Body:
Jane was a fun loving girl from Birmingham, you could say she lived for today. She wanted all the latest fashions and gadgets and certianly was not afraid to use her credit card to pay for them.

She had a weird philosophy on life. For some reason she believed she would die before the age of thirty, however thought that if she was still alive, she would by that stage be earning lots of money. This huge wage packet would be more than enough to pay for any debts that she accrued in her late teens and twenties.

Jane was a girl who could never say no to going on holiday with her friends. There were a number of occasions where she booked a holiday when in reality she could not afford it. Never mind, I will pay for it with my credit card and worry about it at a later date, she thought.

At the age of twenty four, Jane decided to buy a car. Not just any car, or a car for somebody on her earnings but a quite expensive model. You may be wondering how she paid for this car, it was a car loan of course.

Clothes shopping and actually shopping of any kind was a weekly must do thing for Jane. She was a true friends to shop retailers and signed up with many of stores card schemes, who's motto is buy now, pay later.

Jane had a very happy and exciting time during her late teens and twenties, however she did not die before the age of thirty. Companies started knocking at her door, asking for the debts to be repaid. Jane had loan repayments and credit card repayments coming out of her bank account on around eight different days in the month.

This was when Jane needed help and she sought the help of a debt consolidation service provider. For Jane it was now time to grow up and to live in the real world. This was very hard for her to keep track of.


