Title: 
Debt Consolidation Secured Loans: A Race to Your Debt Free Future

Word Count:
692

Summary:
Debt Consolidation Secured Loans replace multiple existing loans and mortgages with a single consolidated cheap secured loan from another lender altogether. This type of consolidation reduces the borrower's monthly payments by lowering the interest rate or extending the repayment period or sometimes both. Since the Debt Consolidation loan can be paid off over a longer time period, the individual monthly installments are also reduced.


Keywords:
UK debt consolidation loans, debt management, debt advice, debt consolidation home loans


Article Body:
A debt consolidation secured loan is particularly used for debt settlement. A debt consolidation process brings together or consolidates various debts and multiple payments like store, gas and phone bills, home improvements, medical bills, taxes, education, overdue rent etc. These are then repaid with one loan, one monthly installment, one loan lender and low interest rates. This means, that if you have several monthly payments or a number of different loans, you can make things easier by consolidating them and taking one single loan to pay off the total debt. This loan reduces the borrower's monthly payments by lowering the interest rate or extending the repayment period or sometimes both. Secured Debt consolidation should be accompanied with low interest rates; otherwise debt consolidation doesn뭪 make any sense. With a Debt Consolidation Loan you can borrow from 5,000 to 75,000 and up to 125% of your property value in some cases.

A Debt consolidation secured loans is self-explanatory. Being a type of secured loan, collateral of some kind is required to assure the lender of payback, either by repayment of the entire loan amount or by repossession of the collateral property. Here, the lender is not risking anything because he has ownership to the collateral, until repayment. Real estate (your home or property) and vehicles such as cars and trucks are the most common collateral for debt consolidation secured loans because of the ease with which a lender can determine the value and find a market for them. Collateral with the highest value should be used since a greater value in comparison to the loan amount can help you get lower interest rates and better loan terms i.e. you may end up paying lesser than you would by using collateral with a lower value.

Features of Secured Debt Consolidation Loans:

 Secured debt consolidation loans require the borrower to offer their home or any securable asset as collateral. This helps the borrower to benefit from the excess of equity in their home.

 The debts are settled by first clustering them into one and the single loan is divided to repay each of them individually.

 The low interest of this loan makes it even more attractive.

 Secured debt consolidation loans are repayable over a longer period of time in small and affordable installments.

 Secured debt consolidation usually has a loan term of 10-30 years

Secured Debt consolidation is ideal for those who have debts exceeding 5000 with three or more individual creditors. It would work if you have expendable income of 100 or more. Secured Debt Consolidation is best for large amounts like 25,000. If you don뭪 have the necessary disposable income, then take small loan amounts. This way you would clear some of pending debts and be in a realistic position to pay back.

Many people think they can't get a loan if they have bad credit, CCJ뭩, arrears or a past bankruptcy. Don't let this stop you getting the cash you need. Secured Debt Consolidation is possible with bad credit as well. However, it can affect your chances of getting lower interest rates and better loan terms. All this depends on how comfortable a lender feels with the borrower뭩 collateral and credit history. Because you have bad credit, it is important that you know your credit score. A credit score above 720 is considered a good credit score while that below 600 is a bad credit score. For an unsecured borrower, knowing your credit score gives you power to get correct rates. If you don뭪 know your score then you may be charged more for bad credit score.

Debts can be sorted on ones own till they are small. They however, become big when they are not repaid on time or when they are ignored for a long period of time. Only credit that cannot be managed or is not being repaid requires debt consolidation. Secured debt consolidation can very easily be a source of further debt problems. With no debt problems on hand, after debt consolidation, you might be tempted to spend more and get further into debt. Remember that even though your monthly payment is less, a longer loan term will cost you more.


