Five Reasons to Get Married in Las Vegas

The first recorded wedding in Vegas was in 1900s when California banned gin from being part of the ceremony, young lovers who were drunk and in love were able to get hitched in Las Vegas.  Their unity certificate took only hours to get stamped and outside the chapel was a city of lights for their marriage celebration.  Clark Gable was said to have been the first celebrity to get married in Vegas, and from then on it became the top wedding destination for celebrities and commoners alike.  Here are five reasons why you should consider getting hitched in the Entertainment Capital of the World.

1. Last Days of Singleton

Days before THE big day, arrive at Las Vegas and plan to spend the last hours of your singleton in the Sin City!  Experience life and the company of friends on a night out on the strip.  

Want girl-bonding time?  You can do that, too! Try a day at the spa for relaxing massage and body pampering while indulging in interesting girl talk on the man you are about to marry.

2. Marry, Quick and Easy

Ready to get married? A valid ID, your social security number and $55 is all you need to get married in Vegas, oh and yes … Love! It is that easy to get hitched: no wedding planner, no in-laws, and no wedding singer.  Just you and your loved one and, of course, the one to marry the two of you:  Elvis, a priest or the Commissioner, it’s entirely to your liking. Just don’t forget to get a marriage license before hand for a smooth flow of the ceremonies.  

3. Marry in Your Own Style

Wedding for a party of 2 or a party of 200?  Vegas has the place and style for you.  Most wedding chapels offer an assortment of packages, from very simple to very grandiose. Rings, flowers, witnesses, everyone and everything are readily available.  And don’t worry about your guest of 200… they have a whole city to entertain themselves, so you can forget about them concentrate on your first night of marital bliss.  

4. Stroll To Your Honeymoon

Some marriages break up before they start their honeymoon.  A long plane ride can be a very tough test for newlyweds.  But that is not a worry in a Las Vegas wedding.  As soon as you step out the chapel (or the garden, or the Commissioner’s office), the honeymoon begins.  Stroll along the strip and be amazed with lights and water fountains that are brighter and larger than life.  Or stay at any of the luxurious hotels to make your wedding night truly memorable!  

5. Settle in Las Vegas

Close to 2,000,000 Americans can’t be wrong: living in Las Vegas is a serious consideration for any couple starting their life.  The city has made very good infrastructure to combat extreme weather conditions.  As the Entertainment Capital, it has 24x7 availability for basic need: food! 

Tired of the blinking lights?  There’s more nature to see at Las Vegas: try Red Rock Canyon, Valley of Fire, and Lake Mead are among the few that will surely take your breath away.  

Ready to raise a family?  Nevada is home to some of the finest schools in the US, take Clark County’s Green Valley High school, one of the top 10 high schools in the US.  

Don’t just get married in Las Vegas, start your new life.  After all, once you set foot in Vegas, you’ll never want to leave ever again.  Viva, Las Vegas!