The most heavily populated city in Nevada, Las Vegas is considered not only as a major vacation and shopping destination but also the center of gambling in the United States. Although it is often called Sin City because of legalized gambling and prostitution, availability of alcoholic beverages, and various forms and degrees of adult entertainment, its glamorous and enchanting image has made it a popular setting in the movies and television programs.

Dubbed as "The Entertainment Capital of the World," Las Vegas is not only known for its tourist attractions, but also for its infamous 'Las Vegas Weddings'.

Las Vegas is by far the most popular destination-wedding spot in the United States (and perhaps the world). About 120,000 weddings are held in Las Vegas every year, and it is a perfect place for couples (especially celebrities) who want to get married in a quick and different (or unusual) way.

A lot of couples prefer to have a Las Vegas wedding because of the following advantages:

 It is affordable. Las Vegas weddings cost less than traditional wedding ceremonies.

 It can be held on short notice. Most chapels in Las Vegas allow couples to book for their wedding right away - others even accommodate walk-ins!

 It is convenient. Hotels in Las Vegas usually have their own wedding chapels, with a wedding coordinator that takes in charge of all the preparations - from the flowers and music to the officiant and the souvenirs - and can get in touch with the couple on the phone or even online.

 It is fun. Las Vegas weddings offer couples with a fun and amusing way to get married - even with an Elvis impersonator as their officiant!

 It allows couples to start their honeymoon early. After the wedding, there is no need for couples to board a plane and head out of town - Las Vegas is a great honeymoon destination in itself!

Are you (and your partner) thinking of having a Las Vegas wedding? Below is a step-by-step guide that will help you get married in Las Vegas:

1. Set a wedding date.

2. Decide on a Las Vegas wedding chapel (check out the chapels in casino-hotels).

3. Speak to a wedding coordinator to know about the information on wedding packages.

4. Book for the date and time of the ceremony that you desire.

5. Make plane and hotel reservations for your friends and families who will come over (and for you if you are not yet in Las Vegas).

6. Make reservations for a festive lunch or dinner (don't forget the wedding cake!)

7. Obtain a marriage license at the Clark County courthouse at least a day before your wedding.

8. Slip away after the ceremony and the celebration.

Aside from these guidelines, below are the things that you also need to consider when getting married in Las Vegas:

 The holidays. Watch out for 'peak seasons' that result to busy wedding days, such as Valentine's Day and New Year's Eve.

 The weather. An extremely hot weather in Las Vegas can be uncomfortable when you are in a tuxedo or a heavy gown (not to mention your makeup and the icing on your wedding cake).

 The dress. There are a number of places in Las Vegas where you can rent wedding dresses for that 'spur-of-the-moment' weddings.

 The legalities. Make sure that you meet the legal requirements and that you are issued a marriage license before you hold the wedding ceremony.

Now you are ready for the wild and wacky experience of a Las Vegas wedding. Just remember that the most important thing is to recite your vows from the heart, and live them all throuh your marriage. All the best!