Tips for Choosing Wedding Decorations

The first thing that guests notice when they attend a wedding ceremony or reception are the decorations.  Therefore, every bride and groom wants to have the decorations very attractive, memorable and to have these represent the interests or the couple.

Usually, the task of choosing the wedding decorations is delegated to the bride and the female members of the family and entourage.  However, it is still preferred that the groom should also help in conceptualizing the decorations to be used for the wedding.

Here are some aspects to consider when deciding on what decorations to be used in the wedding:

* Mood

Will the wedding be formal or casual?  Do you want it to be traditional or contemporary?  This will help in deciding what candles, flowers, balloons, and other venue enhancements will you be needing.

* Color Scheme

Consider the main color to be used for the decorations.  This may be the couple's favorite color, a color that can be associated with their hobby or the color that is preferred during the season.  Make sure that the color of the decorations will go well with what the members of the entourage and the guests will be wearing.

* Site

Take pictures of the wedding site as early as possible so that you can check the pictures while considering a decorating idea.

* Time

Usually, decorations can only be set at the church and at the reception within one to two hours before the event.  Therefore, you must consider decorations that don't take much time to mount.  Also, these decorations should also be taken down right after the event.

* Guests

Consider how many will attend the wedding reception and how big is the site.  With the number of guests that you will be having, can you still set-up bigger decorations that will take some floor space?

If you have a large number of guests, you may just want to set-up floor decorations near the stage and dance floor where most of the program will take place.  Also, you might want to opt for smaller but finely detailed table decorations.

Also consider if there will be kids who will be attending the wedding reception.  Kids may get bored during the program and start playing with the decorations that can cause an unsightly mess.  So you may just get decorations that are not so fragile.

Another tip, if you will be having several kids as guests, you may have a kids area, where they can mingle with other kids and where the decorations and food are more suited for their age.

* Budget

Improperly chosen decorating ideas will not look well even if these cost much.  Also, choosing just two or three decorating ideas, as long as these are implemented well can make a ceremony and reception look lavish.

Also, it is not necessary to buy every item that will be used as decorations.  Some professional decorators can give you information on vases, mirrors, table centerpieces, dried flower arrangements, arc ways, pedestals and plants that will only be used for one day.

With these, just adding a few candles, laces and fresh flowers will make your wedding site and reception exquisite.

A final budgeting advice, check with the wedding rite venue director if there are other weddings that will take place during the day.  If so, you may want to coordinate with the couple that will be using the venue before or after you.  The may agree with your decorating ideas or add some of their own, and agree to just split the decorating expenses with you.