Things You Should Know About Wedding Cake Toppers

Centuries ago, there was a baker’s daughter who was about to be married had wished to have a perfect emblem of her marriage. She asked her father to help her find that perfect symbol in order to indicate the love that has transpired between her and her groom.

After some series of careful deliberation, the father finally came up with something that he thought would best signify the kind of love his daughter has for her husband. And so, when the wedding day came, the baker’s daughter was so happy because there stood, in the middle of the wedding cake, two miniature, but lovely figurines perfectly dressed for the wedding.

The father said that this is the perfect symbol of their marriage, in which the couple is the main attraction of the ceremony.

This could have been a fiction or a true story, but nobody can really tell if this is the start of the wedding cake topper history.

Nevertheless, since its inception, the wedding cake toppers had long been the traditional symbol of married couples as they were symbolically placed above the wedding cake for everybody to see. 

Wedding cake toppers are available in a wide array of designs, colors, and styles wherein couples can choose whatever they think would best portray their marriage.

So, for those who want to know some tips regarding the right way to choose wedding cake topers, here are some tips that you may use:

1. Never use wedding cake toppers that are made of plastics, especially the cheap ones.

Even if you are tight on a budget, it is best not to choose wedding cake toppers that are made of plastics. Usually, these are the ones that are readily available in the department stores.

Wedding cake toppers should be as exceptional as your wedding cake. Therefore, it is best to use wedding cake toppers that is out of ordinary and never before seen in any wedding. This may cost a little bit more than what you have intended to spend with but would definitely convert your wedding cake into something wonderful, one that would definitely make your wedding truly a memorable event.

2. Be creative.

It is best if the wedding along with your wedding cake and cake toppers are all personalized. This means that the designs and styles are creatively made by the couple. This will add more romance and glamour on the wedding itself.

Best of all, do not be constrained with the traditional and classical designs of wedding cake toppers. You may deviate from the customs and have your very own wedding cake toppers.

Today, there are many contemporary designs that the couple may use. In fact, they can even have their own ideas. All they have to do is to ask their baker to make the concept and use it as their wedding cake topper.

3. For the budget conscious couple, you can use your parent’s wedding cake topper if it is still available. This will truly make your wedding cake very special because of the hand-down generation.

The point is, whatever designs or styles of cake toppers you choose to have on your wedding cake, the fact that it symbolizes your marriage is already a special concept that no other item can replace.

Wedding cake toppers are not just sheer embellishments in a cake but more of an emblem, one that best represents the love that is flowing in the hearts of the couple.