Wedding Rings: What To Look For

Wedding rings have long been a part of the tradition of marriage. The highlight of every wedding ceremony, wedding rings represent a couple's promise of remaining faithful and loyal to each other all the time of their lives.

The use of wedding rings date as far back as the time of ancient Egypt, when Egyptians create rings from reeds (and other plants that grow on the Nile River) for couples to exchange, symbolizing their never-ending love for each other.

Today, conventional forms of wedding rings are those that consist of precious metals that are usually worn on the ring finger (the 4th finger) of the left hand. This practice stemmed out from the belief of the "hand-heart connection" - that a vein of blood from the 4th finger of the left hand goes directly to the heart. Medical science, however, has already refuted this claim with their discovery of how the circulatory system works, and although the tradition of wearing the ring on the 4th finger of the left hand still prevails, some people now prefers to wear their wedding rings on their right hand.

Because wedding rings are the ultimate symbol of lifelong love and commitment, it is important that you choose rings of a high quality - one that will last for a long time (perhaps as enduring as your marriage!)

Below are some factors to consider when buying wedding rings:

1. Establish your budget. Going into a jewelry store with the idea of how much you are willing to spend (and how much you can actually spend) for your wedding rings will save you a lot of time.

2. Choose the material. There are numerous wedding ring materials for you to choose from. Some of them are the following:

 Gold - considered as the most traditional wedding ring material, gold comes in a variety of color (yellow gold, pink gold, white gold, green gold) and quality (14k, 18k, and 24k).

 Platinum - considered as one of the finest, purest, and rarest precious metals. One of the strongest, heaviest, and the most enduring of all metals, wedding rings made of platinum is ideal to wear everyday because it is hypoallergenic, it resists tarnish, and it shows little wear. It is, however, more expensive than gold.

 Diamonds - the hardest substance known to man, diamonds are considered as one of the most luxurious and sought-after gem and wedding ring material, with its beauty, purity and durability symbolizing long-lasting love. Note that the value of a diamond is determined by the 4 Cs: Cut, Clarity, Color, and Carat weight.

Other materials that are used for wedding rings include metals such as titanium, tungsten carbide, and nickel silver; and precious gems such as ruby, sapphire, emerald, and topaz.

3. Choose the style. Wedding rings also come in different styles and designs, such as the following:

 Celtic/Irish design wedding rings
 Antique and vintage rings
 Designer wedding rings
 Custom wedding bands
 Traditional plain bands
 Beaded edges
 Engraved rings
 Matching rings
 Tattoed wedding rings

Depending on your personal preference, your wedding ring should be in a design and style that is comfortable to wear and one that will reflect your personality.

4. Browse stores. Find the best deals by looking around the different jewelry stores to compare the different styles and prices that they offer.

5. Consult an expert. Seek advice from a jeweler with a good reputation who can help you find the perfect wedding ring.

Wedding rings are not merely pieces of jewelry. They are significant symbols of a couple's love and commitment for each other, so be sure to find a wedding ring that you can treasure forever.