How to Select the Perfect Wedding Dress

One of the most important decisions a woman will make before she gets married is to select her perfect wedding dress. This is something that every little girl dreams of during her childhood. But don't let the hype and the pressure of years and years of anticipation cloud your judgement. After all, the dress is just a dress, and should never be bigger than the occasion. 

One of the things brides-to-be have to consider when buying a dress is the comfort level of the wedding dress. Sure it's nice to look like a princess on your wedding day, but if the dress causes you extreme discomfort; or cuts off your circulation, then it's not really worth it. The dress might even cause you to faint. Imagine what a nightmare that would be!

The wedding dress selection process usually starts months before the wedding. It's advisable for brides-to-be to look through the pages of wedding magazines, or to visit wedding shops. Just to give them an idea of the different types of styles of wedding dresses that are available.

Brides-to-be also have to consider their body types. It's important to get a wedding dress that looks good on you! You might have to try plenty of wedding dresses before you find that one dress that is perfect for you.

If you have set aside an extensive budget for your wedding dress. Then you can always go for a designer dress. The most famous name nowadays when it comes to bridal fashion is Vera Wang. She is known for her luxurious detailing, craftsmanship, and hand beading. Her clients for her wedding line include: Jennifer Lopez, Jessica Simpson, Uma Thurman and Mariah Carey, just to name a few.

But if you don't have that much money to spare then you can always choose other options. There are a number of places where you can get your wedding dress that won't cost you a fortune. In addition to the more traditional bridal shops, wedding dresses are also available in: thrift shops, discount stores, online, and even eBay.

If you are buying on eBay, make sure the measurements of the wedding dress is included in the description. Also, the condition of the dress must be looked into. Check for feedback regarding that person's account, just to make sure that you are dealing with a credible dealer.

But if a traditional wedding is the theme you have in mind, then you might want to go for a vintage dress, in keeping with this theme. When buying a vintage dress, beware of discoloration, or stains on the dress. These might not come off so easily. Investigate the fabric of the dress, stretch it out to check for weakening, or tearing of the cloth.

Try to buy a vintage dress that is made before the 1900's. Fabrics have a tendency to deteriorate, and weaken over time. Extraordinarily old vintage dresses might look romantic, but they might not be ideal for use.

If you really have your heart set on a specific design, but you find that that dress is too old to use, or too expensive, then you can always go for a reproduction wedding dress. 

Many stores specialize on reproduction dresses. They design wedding dresses based on specific themes, or eras. Some specialty wedding shops also focus on designing  knock-off wedding dresses, inspired by designer wedding gowns. The huge difference being, that these wedding gowns are retailed for the fraction of the amount.

There are so many ways a future bride can go about in search for her dream wedding dress. Searching for a wedding dress should be exciting and fun. So make sure you have plenty of time in your hands before the big day, so  this process doesn't become stressful, and wearisome. Instead a prelude to the happiness of the special occasion which is to become your wedding.