Wedding Planning – Choosing the Gown

The dress is always the highlight of all wedding fantasies and make-believes.  Ever since their youth, people will most often dream of a beautiful princess-bride in a snowy white, ethereal wedding dress of stunning beauty.  It comes as no surprise that choosing the perfect wedding dress for your wedding will prove to be one of the most challenging and exciting part of planning your wedding.

Marriage is – ideally – an once-in-a-lifetime event. There isn’t much leeway to practice or make mistakes. So to make the bride’s entrance down the carpet perfect and memorable, one must take great pains to ensure that everything is done correctly – down to every little detail on the wedding dress.  

From watching fantasy-like weddings on TV, or reading about them in books and magazines, or hearing about them from other people, many brides-to-be form an image in their minds of the kind of wedding dress they would like to wear on their wedding.  Many people take a watch and learn stance as they formulate, plan and dream up their ideal wedding dress.

If your time has come, and you are shopping for the perfect dress to make your wedding dreams come true, then you have come to the right place.  Here are a few tips to help you get over the wedding dress hump will less sweat.

1. The Dress Comes First
Although it may go both ways, the theme of your dress should follow your desired theme – or vice versa.  Some couples choose a theme before choosing a gown, and in effect, they make the gown fit the theme they have chosen.  But for some people, the choice of gown comes first, and the theme of the wedding follows the gown’s theme.  So if the gown that catches the bride’s fancy is ultra beaded and formal, then the wedding may tend to be more formal. If the bride chooses a less formal dress, then the wedding may follow a less formal route.

2. Don’t Overwhelm Yourself with Choices
Yes, it may be tempting to try every gown that comes your way.  But what if you find yourself buried under a pile of 20 or so gowns you think you really like and can’t make a decision?  That sort of scenario will prove to be a terrible headache – not to mention a great source of stress.

To avoid this, try making decisions in stages.  You could try an ‘American Idol’ style way of choosing a gown.  You could vote off the least liked one and then reevaluate the remaining gowns.  

Another method is trying 5 gowns and then choosing two of the best.  These ‘champions’ will be pit against 5 more new gowns. Continue the tournament until you get to the perfect gown.  

It may become tempting to say, “Aw, but that other gown might have been better.”  Try to make sure you make your final decision among 5 gowns.  If you end up with too many to choose from you may get overwhelmed and end up choosing an inferior gown, or choosing the perfect gown but forever asking yourself whether you made the right decision or not.  

Choose Wisely
And choose a wise companion; take along one or two of your closest friends or confidants who know a thing or two about wedding dresses and style.  Their advice will come in handy when choosing a gown. Also, make sure you check the durability and quality of the gown, the material and the accessories. You don’t want your gown falling apart on you during the ceremonies.