Essential wedding accessories

Wedding accessories are important to complete your bridal look. Without wedding accessories, the wedding gown would look bare and incomplete. Below are some of the essential wedding accessories.

Wedding veils
Would a wedding be complete without a wedding veil? Of course you’ve probably seen weddings where brides where gowns without veils but it sure don’t look much like a wedding. A wedding veil, along with the ring and cord, is one wedding accessory that symbolizes the wedding itself. In picking out a wedding veil make sure that it will suit your wedding gown and the theme of your wedding. Traditional veils are very formal and usually measure around three and a half yards long. Veils nowadays come in various lengths. There is even a shoulder length flyaway type that is preferred by many modern brides. 

Shoes & stockings
Shoes and stockings are a crucial element to your overall look on your wedding day. All girls know how difficult it is to find a shoe that will complement attire. What more if you are trying to look for a pair that would match your wedding gown. Try to look for shoes made of velvet, satin and silk as these materials provide a formal and delicate touch to any event. You can also choose shoes with embellishment like beads, sequins, pearls or crystals. Just make sure that the shoes you will buy is comfortable on your feet because you will ear them on probably the most important event of your life.

Jewelry
Aside from the wedding band and wedding ring, you should also take time to consider the other jewelry you will ear like necklace, earrings and bracelet. Jewelry should always compliment a dress and not be the star of the evening. So make sure that the jewelry you will wear would be noticeable enough to get attention but not too loud as to over shadow your wedding gown. Consider wearing family heirlooms because they are proven to be an ideal wedding accessory. Of course, diamonds and pearls would also be very nice. 

Headpieces
Headpieces such as combs, headbands, back pieces and Juliet caps are generally used to hold the wedding veil in place. Often, headpieces are decorated with beads, pearls, crystals or flowers to make them look attractive. It seems like a small detail but a headpiece can spell the difference between a boring wedding attire and an exciting one. Actually, a beautiful headpiece can even replace a veil altogether.  Examples of headpieces that can stand alone are tiaras, crowns, half-crowns, wreaths and bun wraps.

Gloves
Gloves make great accessories especially if you are wearing a strapless or sleeveless gown. The general rule is that the shorter the sleeve the longer the glove should be. Gloves simply provide an air of sophistication to any outfit. 

Handbags
Of course you shouldn’t be carrying a bag with you during the wedding ceremony or even during the reception. But still it would be nice to have a small purse where all the things you will need, particularly make up for touch ups, would be contained. It doesn’t have to be a big shoulder bag. Clutches will work just fine. 

As they say, God is in the details. And in wedding the little details provided by wedding accessories can make all the difference. That’s is why it is very important to give as much attention to the wedding accessories you will wear or carry on your wedding day as you would to your wedding gown.