Choosing A Perfect Wedding Ring

The big day has been set, and now you have tons of wedding preparations to attend to - preparing the guest list, looking for a caterer, shopping for the perfect wedding dress, and a lot more.  All of these are essential in putting together a memorable wedding, so remember to have all these on your wedding checklist.  Also do remember to include on the top of your checklist, "choosing a perfect wedding ring."

Selecting a wedding ring is not as easy as it looks.  It requires much thought, too.  After all, it is the wedding band that binds the couple together and will be worn by the bride and groom for their entire married life, and therefore must be something that they would not get tired of wearing.

Most important when choosing a wedding ring set is to decide on a budget. The couple should consider how much they could afford to spend for the wedding rings.  Based on this budget that the couple have in mind, decide on the material they want their wedding bands to be made of.

The materials from which wedding rings can be made of have evolved through the years.  However, the most popular are still those made from classic 14K or 18K yellow gold.  Gold rings remain to be very popular both for wedding and engagement.

Wedding rings made from white gold are also gaining popularity, it being very stylish-looking and exuding a very modern aura.  Also, white gold goes well with other silver and platinum jewelry, as well as with most clothing fabric.

Platinum being one of the hardest metals is also a very suitable material for a wedding ring.  For one, it is very durable and therefore will endure wear and tear for a very long time.  Platinum wedding rings may also be a symbol for enduring love that is if couple wanted a romantic twist in picking a wedding ring.  Platinum rings looking very similar with rings made of white gold looks very stylish and elegant.  However, platinum wedding rings are the most expensive, but if the couple considers the fact that it is something that will last them a lifetime, then the cost probably would not really matter. 

Titanium is a popular material especially for wedding rings for men.  It is light, long lasting, and is not as expensive as platinum.  Titanium wedding rings are similar to white gold rings in appearance.  The only different is that titanium wedding rings are so light you can hardly feel it when worn on your finger.

As for the wedding ring style to choose, there are the traditional plain bands, the more elaborate ones with beaded edges.  There are also the modern designs of two-tone wedding bands.  The Celtic wedding rings engraved with ancient knot work are also hot these days.  Solitaire rings with a precious stone are also classic designs for wedding bands.

Often times, the bride may want to match her wedding ring with the engagement ring.  Of course, this is also something that has to be taken into consideration, especially is she wants to wear both rings on the same hand.

In choosing for a wedding ring, foremost consider your budget and then decide on the material.  Also, having to wear your wedding bands for a really long time, it is also worth considering choosing something that would best work with your clothes and the other jewelry you usually wear. Above all, choose a wedding ring that you will be most comfortable in wearing.

Good luck on your wedding ring shopping!