How to Select the Proper Wedding Music

So you've exchanged vows, and have said your 'I do's, now it's time to head out to the reception and party like you've never partied before. If you want live music playing in your reception,  then you would want to hire a live band. But first, you must check with people that rent the venue where you're going to hold your reception, to see what type of live music they allow. Some venues have stringent restrictions when it comes to live music. 

The type of music that you choose to play in your wedding should be an expression of both the bride and groom's personality, personal taste, and the overall theme of the wedding.

It's very important to select the right music, because the music will become  a pervading presence all through out the wedding, and right down to the reception. Music creates an atmosphere. It will set the mood of your wedding. 

During the wedding itself, the choice of music usually depends on the wedding. Most church ceremonies don't allow secular music. They stick to more traditional, or religious music. A man and a woman duet is usually sung during the ceremony. A church organist usually provides the majority of the music.

For the reception, the bride and groom has a choice of recorded music, or live music. If you opt for recorded music, it would be best to hire the services of a DJ. The best thing about this, is you can request to have all of your favorite songs in the playlist. Ask your friends if they know any good DJs that are willing to play for wedding receptions. If they don't know any, you could always just search the yellow pages, internet, or even contact your local radio station. 

Once you've settled on a DJ, have a one-on-one discussion with the DJ. Just to explain what type of entertainment and mood you want to have during the reception. Also discuss, the selection of music that you have in mind. Ask if the DJ's familiar with wedding protocol. If not, you might want to brief the DJ first about the sensibility of the event.

On the other hand, choosing live music offers you a choice of hiring a band,  soloist, instrumentalists,  jazz group, etc. It all depends on what kind of theme you have in mind for you wedding.

For more formal weddings, classical groups, piano soloists, and instrumentalists are more appropriate. It would not be a bad idea, to also consider the sensibilities of your guests, to ensure that everyone has a good time!

If you want to have a rocking good time for the reception of your wedding, then hiring a band is the way to go! The energy of a live band gets people going. There's nothing else that spells a rocking good time better, than a rock and roll band. 

Before hiring a band, ask them if you could listen to their music first. This will help you decide if that particular band is just right for you. Also discuss, if the band will do emcee duties, as well as provide the music. 

It's best to hire a band that has had previous experience with wedding receptions. This way, they'd know what to expect, and will be able to provide the proper entertainment that's fitting for the occasion.

You always want to keep the music going, so include some background music even when the meals are being served, or when the bride and groom are doing their rounds of greeting, having their pictures taken, etc. This will also maintenance the atmosphere of the wedding all through out the reception. So choose wisely, because your choice of music can make or break this occasion!