Wedding favors for family and friends

Wedding favors are a great way for couples to show their gratitude to family and friends that graciously attended their wedding day. Wedding favors are small tokens of appreciation that couples can give out to the people that came to celebrate their wedding day with them. Wedding favors come in all shapes and sizes. There are an infinite number of items for wedding favors that couples can choose from.

The couple's budget is a significant factor to consider when selecting wedding favors. However a resourceful and creative couple can easily find a solution to their problem. Couples can also choose to have their wedding favors centered on their wedding theme. Wedding favors can either be store bought or made by the bride herself with the help of her bridal entourage. 

History of wedding favors

The history of wedding favors dates back several centuries ago in European countries. People then believed that weddings were a fortunate occasion and that the giving of wedding favors by the groom and bride is a way of sharing that luck to family and friends. 

Wedding favors began as a tradition of upper class families in Europe centuries ago. French and Italian families would hand out 'bonbonnieres' to guests as wedding favors. These confectionary delicacies are placed in small fancy boxes made of metal, crystal or porcelain. The boxes are also decorated with precious stones that create a precious keepsake for guests. 

Later on, other social classes took on the tradition of giving wedding favors to their guests. Almonds were popular wedding favors given by couples in the earlier days. People believed that the almonds represented longevity, happiness, wealth, health and fertility. Up to now, almonds are still common wedding favors given by couples in the form of candy-coated almonds. 

Modern day wedding favors

Wedding favors are now an essential part of the preparations for the wedding day. Couples have limitless choices for wedding favors. Wedding favors can be bought or made to match the style of the couple's wedding. Couples can choose to have either practical or decorative wedding favors to give away to family and friends. 

Many sensible couples opt to give out practical wedding favors that guests can use afterwards. These can either be small kitchen gadgets like salt and peppershakers, coasters or cookie cutters. While other couples choose to give out soaps and candles as wedding favors. 

Ideas for wedding favors

Ideas for wedding favors can be as wild as the imagination can get. Couples can come up with the wildest wedding favors for their giveaway to family and friends. Wedding favors also come in a variety of prices that helps make it easier for couples to find the right gift at the right price. 

Couples can choose to have wedding favors that symbolize the theme of the wedding. Wedding favors can also be selected in relation to the season in which the wedding is scheduled. Christmas or winter theme, summer theme or fall theme wedding favors also makes it easier for couples to select the right giveaway for the event. 

Creative couples can also use their resourcefulness to craft their own wedding favors. Wedding songs recorded on compact discs are popular wedding favors that let couples share their special day with guests for years to come. At any rate, the choice of wedding favors is limited only by the couple's imagination.