Guide to Good Wedding Photography

It뭩 your wedding꿵ne of the most beautiful days in your life.  How else can you make the perfect occasion last?  Capture the momentous event with great wedding photographs.  Read this guide to make sure you choose the right wedding photography service for your big day.  

The first thing to do is to give the most opportunities for the photographer when scheduling activities during the wedding day.  When planning the time of the wedding ceremony and of the reception, couples should incorporate the time that the photographer requires to capture all of the couple뭩 special moments.  There should be a gap between the end of the ceremony and beginning of the reception, to allow for more photographs for the bride, groom and wedding entourage, especially if they are in two different locations.  The photographers and subjects will have a more relaxed shoot and will enjoy all the parts of the wedding if the events are well spaced out.  

Next, think of important factors when selecting a wedding photographer.  The photographer should be able to show more than one complete set of wedding photos.  Couples should not accept someone who shows only selected prints of their best photographs from different weddings.  Ideally, all photographs from 3 to 4 complete wedding sets that are at least satisfactory should be a criterion of a professional wedding photographer.  

It is also good to have a photographer that gives a package with unlimited coverage for the whole day.  Again, this way, photography will not be rushed.

Next, try to be aware of photography companies or individuals that contract out jobs to a pool of wedding photographers or even freelancers.  Salespersons often pose as actual photographers and try to woo customers.  Make sure companies deal openly, and ask them to show 3 to 4 complete weddings from each of the photographers they offer you, so you can choose.  Make sure the one chosen is the one that will cover your wedding.  Otherwise, it is better to find a photographer that personally shoots weddings.  A two-person team is an even better package because two points of view of the wedding can be taken. 

Some photographers only offer the traditional wedding photography style, or strictly a photojournalistic style.  It is best to find a versatile photographer that can do both.

Lastly, couples should take note of some important questions to ask a prospective wedding photographer:

 Are colored and black and whites included, or would he charge extra for B/W? Dramatic effects can be made with black and white photographs, so ask if this is a premium.

 Are hand and digital coloring or digital color separation included in the package or would he charge extra for these? Better pictures are developed when the photograph colors are separated first, improved, and then printed.  

 What kinds of cameras does he use?  Does he use medium format equipment and have a back up?  Does have a "leaf" shutter or "focal plane"?  

 What lenses does he use? Does he use only one, or will he change lenses? Make him show you photo effects that he is able to achieve with different lenses and choose the ones which you like to appear with your photographs.  

 Is he willing to customize a package that is within your budget? 

Asking intelligent questions will encourage photographers to deal openly with customers.  Remember, it뭩 your special day, and you should make sure that the wedding photography is something that will help you and your loved ones relive those wonderful memories.