Three Health Advantages Of A Vegetarian Diet

While many people lament the nutritional disadvantages
of a poorly planned vegetarian diet, few stress the 
health advantages of adopting a vegetarian or vegan diet.
In this article, I will cover the major three nutritional
advantages of becoming a vegetarian. 

The first major advantage of a vegetarian diet is 
increased heart health. Vegetarians, on average, consume
more nuts (often as a supplemental form of protein). Nuts
contain "good" fats, such as omega-3 and omega-6. This 
promotes good heart health by reducing "bad" cholesterol 
and unclogging arteries. 

In addition to nuts, vegetarians also consume more soy 
milk (often to replace milk), which reduces "bad" 
cholesterol and has been linked to good heart health.

The second major advantage vegetarians enjoy is increased
skin health. In addition to consuming larger quantities 
of nuts (which contain healthful oils), vegetarians tend
to consume more fruit and vegetables, which are rich in
essential vitamins, including A and E, which are linked 
to good skin health.

Fruits and vegetables also contain high amounts of fiber,
which helps flush toxins out of the body, further 
contributing to better skin health.

The last health advantage vegetarians enjoy is an increased 
natural consumption of antioxidants.

Antioxidants are foods that help prevent cancer by 
destroying free radicals. Vitamin C and Vitamin E, two 
strong antioxidants, are commonly found in vegetarian 
meals.

Vitamin C can be found in berries, tomatoes, citrus fruit, 
kale, kiwis, asparagus and peppers.

Vitamin E can be found in wheat germ, seed oils, walnuts,
almonds, and brown rice--all foods that are commonly a 
part of a well-balanced vegetarian diet.

So what does this all mean for you as a prospective 
vegetarian?

It means the popular mythology about vegetarian diets 
is false. Not only can a vegetarian diet be nutritionally
sufficient, but it can also affect better skin
health, prevent cancer, and increase your
heart health.
