Why Vegans Don't Consume Dairy Products

As with most dietary questions, vegans are split
on the issue of dairy products--not so much on the question
of whether or not they are acceptable, but instead for what
reasons they should not be consumed.

All vegans (or at least true vegans) abstain from consuming
dairy products. Some do so for nutritional reasons;
others abstain for ethical reasons.

Those who do it for nutritional reasons cite a range of 
health problems related to the consumption of dairy 
products, including high cholesterol. Many also have a 
problem digesting lactose or have a blood-iron or diabetic 
problem related to milk protein, casein. In addition to 
this, milk and cheese often contain small portions of 
undesirable hormones that are added to dairy cow feeds 
to increase production.

Those who abstain from consuming dairy products for
ethical reasons also have a range of reasons for doing so.

Some cite the poor treatment of dairy cows as a main
reason for not consuming milk and cheese. They note that
dairy cows are forced to become pregnant once each
year to maintain a constantly high yield of milk.
They are also fed numerous steroids 
to increase production.

Others who abstain for ethical reasons often cite the 
maltreatment of dairy cow offspring. They note that calves 
are not allowed to spend time with or suckle from the 
mother, but instead are prematurely removed to be reared 
for either veal production, beef production, or as 
replacement dairy cows.

The calves selected for "veal" production are often forced
to live in crates so tiny that they cannot turn around. 
They must face in one direction; they cannot groom
themeselves; and they are fed hormone-laden feed until
they are sent off to be slaughtered.

If you are a prospective vegan, you may want to take 
some time now to think about what is best for you. 
Ask yourself whether you wanted to become a vegan for 
ethical reasons, dietary reasons, or both. And from 
there, determine whether or not these arguments were 
strong enough to compel you to do so. Either way, you 
should emerge with a stronger viewpoint and a better 
understanding of what you do and do not want.
