The Difference Between Vegan & Vegetarian

If you recently started reading about vegetarian
diets, you have probably read all sorts of 
strange vegetarian terms and categories like "vegan," 
"ovo-lacto vegetarian," and "semi-vegetarian."
You probably wondered what the big deal was. 
Afterall, what is so conceptually tough about not 
eating meat?

And you were right!

The distinctions between these sub-categories of 
vegetarian are actually small, but each is very important
to members who belong to the groups. For them, these 
distinctions aren’t arbitrary lines; they are important
dietary or ethical decisions.

Let’s take a look at some of these groups:

VEGETARIAN:

Vegetarian is a blanket term used to describe a person 
who does not consume meat, poultry, fish, or seafood. 
This grouping includes vegans and the various sub-
categories of vegetarian; however, it generally implies
someone who has less dietary restrictions than a vegan.

SEMI-VEGETARIAN:

The term semi-vegetarian is usually used to describe 
someone who is not actually a vegetarian. Semi-vegetarian
generally implies someone who only eats meat occasionally 
or doesn’t eat meat, but eats poultry and fish.

OVO-LACTO-VEGETARIAN:

Ovo-lacto vegetarians are vegetarians who do not consume
meat, poultry, fish, and seafood, but do consume eggs and
milk. This is the largest group of vegetarians.

OVO-VEGETARIAN:

Ovo-vegetarian is a term used to describe someone who 
would be a vegan if they did not consume eggs.

LACTO-VEGETARIAN:

Lacto-vegetarian is a term used to describe someone 
who would be a vegan if they did not consume milk.

VEGAN:

Vegan is the strictest sub-category of vegetarians. 
Vegans do not consume any animal products or byproducts.
Some even go as far as not consuming honey and yeast.
Others do not wear any clothing made from animal 
products.

Take some time to figure out what group you will belong
to when you become a vegetarian. You will want to consider 
both dietary and ethical reasons for choosing this
lifestyle.
