Bungy Jumping In America

Although there are many bungy jumping sites in countries all over the globe, many Americans who have developed an interest in this sport would prefer locations that are closer to home.  Fortunately, there are plenty of places in the United States where prospective bungy jumpers can begin trying out this fascinating new hobby.  Whether you'd like a plan a traveling vacation centered around bungy jumping, or if you want a day of excitement nearer to where you live, it is not difficult to find a bungy jumping location which suits your needs.  You may just decide to make it a part of your lifestyle.

Some of the prime bungy jumping sites in the United States can be found in California.  Due to its year-round mild climate, outdoor sports in general are very popular in this state, and bungy jumping is no exception.  Bungee America, which is located in Los Angeles, is one of the most well-known in Southern California.  Since it first opened in 1989, Bungee America is the oldest bungy jumping company in the country.  This fact, coupled with their perfect safety record, may help you in deciding that Bungee America would certainly be a good choice for your bungy jumping trip.  

Pioneer, California, is home to Bungee Experience, which has been an operating business since 1989.  It was founded by Glenn Bruno, one of America's first bungy jumpers.  They usually schedule bungy jumping once per month between April and September at various Northern California bridges which are no lower than one hundred forty feet.  They also offer bungy jumping excursions to higher bridges around the United States.  

In Washington state you can find the Pacific North West Bridge surrounded by the area's breathtaking scenic beauty.  Bungee.Com provides for this location's bungy jumping;  if you elect to become a member of their Dangerous Sports Club you will be entitled to special members' discounts for your future trips.   

Located in Wisconsin, the Extreme World's sports park has bungy jumping as its main attraction.  The Extreme World Bungee Jump tower, at a height of one hundred thirty feet, is currently the only bungy jumping provider in the midwest that allows this sport to be done without the use of traditional ankle harnesses.  Your Extreme World bungy jumping experience will have you plummeting toward the ground at a speed that accelerates to forty mph.  After your fall has been successfully completed, you will be given the opportunity to purchase a videotape of your experience.

Over the Edge, Inc., in Boise, Idaho, offers bungy jumping for individuals and groups. They have bridge sites in various parts of Idaho, or they will take you on an excursion to any of their nineteen other bungy jump bridges in the western United States.  One favorite is the Grand Canyon Jump, located at the northern tip of the Grand Canyon.  Another popular bungy jumping experience offered by Over the Edge, Inc., is the one hundred sixty foot jump at Yellowstone National Park.

Wherever you are in the United States, and whichever part of America you would like to be the destination for your bungy jumping, there are plenty of options available.
