Bungy Clubs Around The World

If you are a newcomer to the sport of bungy jumping and wish to find others who share your likeminded interests, or if you're a seasoned jumper who considers this sport to be one of your main passions, you may be interested in connecting with bungy clubs and their members.  As the popularity of this sport has become worldwide, so have the clubs which cater to bungy jumping enthusiasts!

In the United States, there are currently twenty-five states which have their own listed bungy clubs.  This is quite impressive for a sport which has only been in existence in its present form for the last two decades.  Some of these states boast more than one club;  California has the most, located in Sacramento, El Segundo, Alameda, and Los Gatos.  Canada presently lists five, located in British Columbia, Alberta, Ottawa, and two in Ontario.  If you are truly passionate about this sport, checking into these bungy jumping clubs is a great way to make your experiences even better.

If you wish to do a bit of traveling to join in with bungy jumping clubs, you can proceed to Mexico, Costa Rica, Brazil, Peru, Argentina, Guatemala, Colombia, Venezuela, or Ecuador.  Whether your interest in bungy clubs is for the jumping itself or interacting with other members, these clubs in Central America and South America will give you both benefits as well as broadening your horizons in very different geographical locales.  

In the United Kingdom, many of the best bungy clubs are affiliated with the British Elastic Rope Sports Association in Oxford, England.  Endorsement by this Association assures you that the clubs have met and maintain specific standards, including the Code of Safe Practice.  In becoming involved with any of these clubs, you will know that your safety is their primary concern.  It is important to note that bungy jumping clubs in the United Kingdom are not required to be affiliated with the Association, and only those who are must adhere to their standards.  Therefore if you wish to become involved with bungy jumping clubs in the United Kingdom, it is a good idea to find out beforehand if the club you are interested in has been approved by the British Elastic Rope Sports Association.  

In addition to those located in the United Kingdom, twenty-four other countries in Europe list bungy jumping clubs, as well as fourteen clubs in other locations.  If traveling will be a part of your bungy jumping experiences, becoming involved in the bungy jumping clubs in the areas you will visit will certainly add to your enjoyment.  In selecting foreign destinations in which to engage in your hobby, you can go beyond the sport to the extra fun of taking part in a new culture, sampling its cuisine, learning a new language, and, above all, having the opportunity to get to know many other people who share your interest in bungy jumping.  You may choose a club close to your own home, or you can make it an even more special treat by finding one to your liking on the opposite side of the globe!
