Bungee Jumping Clubs

So you want to go bungee jumping, and you are trying to figure out where to get started.  Or, perhaps you are a seasoned jump veteran, and you are looking for others to start a jumping group together.  Either way, you are really looking for the same thing: a bungee club.  Bungee jumping clubs have come into existence over the last few decades as a result of the prominence and massive expansion of the bungee jumping industry.

A group called the Dangerous Sports Club could be considered to be the first bungee jumping club.  This group, from Oxford and London, were active in a variety of extreme sports adventures from the late 1970s through the 1980s.  The club is credited with the invention of the modern bungee jumping craze.  Their first jump took place on April 1st, 1979.  The club was very active during their heyday in the early 1980s.  Easily the most famous member of the Dangerous Sports Club was Graham Chapman, of Monty Python fame.

Since that time, bungee jumping clubs have grown in popularity as well as quantity.  There are bungee jumping clubs on virtually every inhabited continent of the globe.  The fact that this extreme sport has taken such strides in popularity is evident from the number of clubs and the amount of jumpers who make the plunge every year.  There are two primary bungee jumping safety organizations that operate as certification entities today.  One is the United States Bungee Association (USBA), the other is the British Elastic Sports Association (BERSA).  These organizations would be a good starting place to find a bungee jumping club, because they keep track of who is certified by their respective organizations.  This is good, because you can be assured that the club is operating with safety procedures strictly enforced.

Some experienced bungee jumpers may want to start their own club.  However, this is a big endeavor, and they should consider all of the steps necessary to start a club before they get started.  Just a few of the things needed will be considered here.

First, in order to start a bungee jumping club, you would want to write and document your 'business plan', so-to-speak.  This would document your project and would provide something for you to give out to prospective investors and concerned government agencies.  You will need to acquire financing in order to pay for equipment, insurance, experienced crew, jump location, etc.  Once contracts are in place for the crew, location, etc., you will want to get any needed governmental permits.  Once all the paperwork is in place, you can begin construction of your jump site.  After testing with sandbags, and your crew, you will finally be ready to start promoting your bungee jumping club.  As you can see, these are only an overview of the steps required.  Even this short list presents a formidable task to starting a club.

It is probably best to start by joining an existing bungee jumping club, and drawing from their experience while you grow your own experience.  This would provide the springboard needed to launch your own bungee jumping club in the future.
