How Did Bungy Jumping Become So Popular?

Some people love anything that is new.  Some people love anything that is adventurous.  Put both of those key elements together and it is easy to see how bungy jumping very quickly went from being one individual inventing an elastic rope and tossing himself off high structures to a legitimate sport which has gained worldwide popularity in a relatively short period of time.  Twenty-five years ago no one had heard of bungy jumping;  today, it is all the rage--  everywhere!

Bungy jumping is one sport for which the aspect of newness is constant.  Whether a person is attempting his very first jump or has made it a consistent part of his lifestyle, the element of adventure is such that each and every jump is a fresh experience.  Even if you frequent the same bungy jumping sites on a regular basis, this is a sport in which every experience is different, and each time feels like the first time.  Adventure-seekers of all ages and backgrounds will delight in this factor, because no matter how long you engage in the sport of bungy jumping it is something which will never become routine.  The excitement is present whether it is your first jump or your twentieth!  

The overwhelming sense of adventure helps in making bungy jumping so popular.  There are many people who are naturally drawn to all of the aspects of thrill-seeking, from the adrenalin rush it has on one's entire system to the knowledge that one is essentially risking life and limb and hoping to win the game.  There are no other sports that compare in these factors, which makes bungy jumping quite unique.  

For those who have the time and resources to travel, this too plays a positive role in bungy jumping's popularity.  While it isn't difficult to find a jumping site convenient to one's home area, companies which offer bungy jumping expeditions add to the enjoyment, as do faraway locations which make the bungy jumping experience a great vacation.  

For individuals who have youth on their side, many feel the desire to experience everything that life can possibly offer.  The more, the better;  and the more intense, the more better yet.  For the many who wish to try every extreme that can be found, this sport presents the most unforgettable experience. Those who feel the need to "try everything once" will find nothing lacking in bungy jumping!  Being able to capture it on videotape for future reference, and to share with less-adventurous colleagues, is certainly an added bonus.  Your bungy jumping experience on videotape could also be the factor needed to prod others into trying the sport for themselves.  

Sometime in the future surely someone will feel the need to analyze this sport and what its allure is to those who choose to engage in it either as a hobby or a lifestyle.  It would make more sense, though, to merely describe bungy jumping as fun--  and that in itself is a good enough reason for its popularity.  
