Naked Bungee Jumping

There's a new trend in bungee jumping, but I wouldn't exactly say that it's taking the world by storm. So what is this new angle on the ancient sport of bungee jumping?  How about naked bungee jumping.  OK, so I know you think I'm crazy, but there hundreds, perhaps thousands out there who will swear by this experience.  Let's take a few minutes to look at the possible attraction, as well as the detractors, of this bizarre variation on the sport.

First, it is interesting to note that the natives who have performed the ritual that has become bungee jumping for thousands of years wear very little clothing.  I'll admit, it must be a bit different jumping from a make-shift wooden tower using a jungle vine attached to your ankles.  This is a far cry from modern bungee jumping.  However, these native young men wore nothing more than a flimsy loin cloth on their plunge to please mother earth.  So in some primitive, instinctual way, there must be a spiritual attraction of sorts in performing naked bungee jumping.  Some people who choose to participate in this variation of the sport have admitted to being extreme naturalists, even nudists.  Of course, there are those who complete nude bungee jumping who wouldn't qualify as nature lovers at all.  

A common theme that is seen at the special events held for such display is that of a couple performing a tandem jump.  A tandem jump is simply a jump where two people go together, usually tethered together, facing each other.  There is obviously some primitive expression of sexuality in this type of event.  However, more modern couples are choosing to participate in naked bungee jumping to show their devotion to one another.  Taking the plunge can now be applied to more than just marriage!  Many couples who share their experience afterward say that there is a definite bonding that takes place.  Sharing an adrenaline rush such as the death-defying act of naked bungee jumping is something that will tie them together forever in their eyes.

Another reason many people choose to go 'full monty' on the ropes is because it is usually cheaper.  Yep, you heard me right.  Although the time investment and equipment used by the jump company is the same, the cost is less.  Some companies even allow those brave souls who want to go naked bungee jumping to go free of charge.  These types of promotional efforts appeal to those who are of a more frugal nature.  Some companies that offer naked bungee jumping do so once a year, on a pre-planned date or weekend event.  This helps make the event more palpable to the public.  Imagine going to an amusement park and seeing people riding the rides naked!  It would be a great shock, especially if you did not know that it was planned that way.  By scheduling the special jumps for a specific date, the promoters of this type of event avoid that aspect of publicity.

It's growing among the ardent fans of the sport, as well as the newcomers.  It seems to have no defining characteristic except that those who perform it are lovers of adventure.  So whether you believe in the spirituality of it all or not, naked bungee jumping is here to stay.
