What Type Of Bungy Jumping Trip Would You Like?

If you would like to try the sport of bungy jumping, you can select from a number of trip packages that are sure to give you the experience of a lifetime.  You may have a preference in destinations and other available activities;  you can find a bungy jumping trip which will suit your own personal tastes and interests.  

If you are one of the most extreme thrill-seekers, you may like the idea of bungy jumping to the top of an active volcano.  Located in Pucon, Chile, you can bungy jump from a helicopter to within seven hundred feet from the molten lava.  You will, of course, be accompanied in the helicopter by both a trained bungy jumping professional and a photographer.  To add to the excitement, this trip includes traveling thirty-five miles to the volcano at high speed and high altitude while on the outside of the helicopter.  This would certainly be an unforgettable initiation into the sport of bungy jumping.  

Perhaps your preference leans more toward a great bungy jumping experience without the death-defying risks,  if so,  you might like to try the sport in California's Angeles National Forest.  In thirteen years of business, Bungee America's jumpers have  not had any injuries, and has an excellent safety record.  This bungy jumping is done from a ten-stories-high bridge.  You will be able to do front-flips, back-flips, back dive, front dive, or the elevator drop;  and you can choose between one and five jumps.  

Located in Northern California, Icarus Bungee also has a perfect safety record.  The bridges which they use for bungy jumping are all a minimum of one hundred twenty feet in height, and some are considerably higher.  All of the bridges they use for bungy jumping are in beautiful locations, which is a wonderful addition to the enjoyment of the bungy jumping trip.  

You can also find some great bungy jumping spots in Canada.  One of these is nestled amongst the breathtaking scenic beauty of Vancouver Island.  WildPlay at the Bungy Zone offers the very best of the basics.  If you're looking for a bungy jumping trip with a no-frills emphasis on the sport at reasonable prices, WildPlay at the Bungy Zone could be the trip you are looking for.  But do not confuse "no-frills" with boring;  for you will certainly have all of the excitement bungy jumping can afford, with the details focused on the sport itself.  Not fancy, just great, would be the best way to describe it!  If you select Vancouver Island for your bungy jumping trip, you can do single jumps or tandem jumps with a friend.  If you are especially adventurous, WildPlay at the Bungy Zone has an annual gathering of jumpers where clothing is optional.  

Bungy jumping in Mexico is considerably less expensive, but you will not need to sacrifice any of the excitement.  There are bungy jumping companies in Mazatlan, Monterrey, Guadalajara, and Puerto Vallarta, all of which provide the much sought-after thrills of this sport.  

Whatever type of bungy jumping trip you would like, it is available for you!
