Where To Bungee Jump

Bungee jumping has taken the extreme sports world by storm.  Over the last few decades, millions of people have completed successful jumps.  So now, it is your turn.  You are getting ready to jump and you are excited.  But where do you jump from?  What are your options when it comes to the location?  In real estate, it is always said that the most important thing is 'location, location, location'.  Is this true about bungee jumping as well?  Let's take a look at some of the options for where to bungee jump, and how the jumps are completed in these environments.  This will help you to make an informed decision when you get ready to take the big dive.

Probably the most common place to bungee jump from is the crane.  In this scenario, a crane is used with a cage on the end.  The cage is lowered to the ground, and the jumper is prepared, rigged up, and attached to the bungee cord.  The bungee cord is then attached to the cage.  The jumper is then raised up to the jump height using the crane.  Often times the jump master will hold the coiled cords to prevent them from tangling up during the jump.  Once the cage reaches the jump height, the jumper jumps from the cage, bouncing at the end of the jump.  Upon completion of the jump, once the jumper is no longer bouncing, the cage is slowly lowered to the ground.  The ground crew is prepared to catch the jumper as he is lowered and safely remove him from his harness.  Once the jumper has cleared the platform, the bungee cords are recoiled and everything is inspected and prepared for the next jump participant.

So where else can you bungee jump?  Another prime location for a bungee jump is from a bridge.  Many successful jumps have been done from a variety of bridge types as well.  When jumping from a bridge, the jump team usually assembles a platform for the jumper to jump from.  The jumper is then harnessed up, and attached to the bungee cords.  The cords are then anchored to the bridge.  Once everything is ready, the jumper jumps off the platform.  A variation of this allows the jumper to jump from the rail of the bridge as well.  The jumper will bounce around 2-4 times before coming to a stop.  At this point the jump crew will usually lower down a secondary static line.  When the jumper clips this line to their harness, it is then used to pull the jumper back onto the bridge.  This is the safest recovery method used to get the jumper from the bottom jump position.  Another method that is sometimes used is to pull the bungee cord up enough to un-hook it from the bridge, and then use the cord to lower the jumper to the ground.

In addition to these tried and true places for bungee jumping, there is no end to the quest for where to bungee jump.  In the progression of this modern extreme sport, bungee jumping is taking place from buildings, towers, cable cars, hot air balloons, and even cable cars.  There is no end in sight to the locations that will be explored in the bungee jumping adventure.
