Digital Binoculars- Taking Videos
	
Have you ever been looking at something through your binoculars, something really exciting like a breaching whale, a pair of nesting Bald Eagles, or a really cool downhill skier, and wished you had someway to capture the moment on video. With a pair of digital binoculars you can.
	
Digital binoculars are a normal pair of binoculars that have been equipped with a point and shoot digital camera (normally a simple digital camera). With a pair of digital binoculars it is possible to take a picture of whatever you are looking at through your binoculars. 
	
As anyone who is familiar with digital cameras already knows, one of the features is the ability to take video clips. Then, with the aid of a computer and some software, it is possible to burn the video clips to a DVD.
	
After you have purchased a pair of digital binoculars you will have to purchase some sort of memory device to store photographic images and digital video. Most digital binoculars come with an internal memory where pictures can be stored, but the allotted memory is generally minimal and only a few images or a few seconds of video can be stored. The type of external memory device you will need is determined by the pair of digital binoculars you purchase. It is very rare for an external memory device to be included with the purchase of a pair of digital binoculars.
	
Make sure the storage device you are about to purchase is compatible to your digital binoculars before you purchase it. Buying the right type right away will save you time and headaches. Digital binoculars typically use one of the following types of memory storage; Compact Flash, memory sticks, XDPicture cards, secure digital (SD), or micro-drive. You can save money by purchasing a pair of digital binoculars that uses the same kind of memory device as your personal digital camera or digital DVD camcorder.
	
When you are getting ready to purchase a storage device consider the cost to amount of available storage ratio. The more gigabytes the card has the more images and minutes of video can be stored. On the other hand the more gigabytes the more the storage device is going to cost. Do some comparison shopping, is it cheaper to buy two one gigabyte cards or will you save money by purchasing one two gigabyte card. Take some time and really scan the pull out section of your Sunday paper, electronic stores will often offer exceptional prices on their digital storage devices (especially ones with lesser gigabytes) in an attempt to draw people into their stores. If you find a really good deal on digital memory devices that fit your digital binoculars, take advantage and buy several. 
	
Before you purchase an storage device know how fast the card you are purchasing is. The rule of thumb is that the faster the card the better the card. The faster storage speed also means the card is going to cost a little more, but the quality of the card will offset the price.
	
Do you homework. There is typically very little difference in the cards that are made by different manufactures. Where you will find a difference is in the warranty.Know how long the warranty is good for and make sure you know what is covered. 
	
When you are planning on using your digital binoculars always carry a spare storage device. You would hate to see a really good shot of something and not be able to capture it because you had already used up all your storage.
	
Be prepared for your digital binoculars to go through allot of batteries. Most people quickly decide to purchase quality battery chargers and several rechargeable batteries. They'll quickly pay for themselves.
	
Don't purchase a pair of digital binoculars and expect them to take the place of your personal camera and your mini-DVD camcorder. The market is for digital binoculars is relatively new. The quality of the photos and videos they take is not quite as good as the ones you will get from the regular digital cameras and camcorders. The photo and video quality will improve as the market grows more competitive and more companies become involved.
