Helpful Binocular Information

Obviously if you'll be bird watching, bunny watching, or deer watching for fun, your covered carport or the inside of your car will keep your binoculars needs to a minimum.
You'll have protection from the weather, so waterproofing won't be quite as much of an issue as it would be for someone who must use their binoculars in moisture filled occasions on a regular basis.  You'll be able to focus on other aspects of the decision making process.

Hunters, on the other hand, have been known to forego weather warnings or get caught in the unexpected rainstorm, or maybe even come across a pond while chasing after the buck that runs off after being shot.  Waterproofing and weight would definitely be an important and well-received feature for this area of consumer needs.  Night vision might also be a consideration because of the hours hunters must keep to wait for their prey.  Getting in the stands before the animals start looking for their breakfast is a must for the dedicated hunter.  But hunting isn't just about the prey; it's also about enjoying what the outdoors has to offer besides the prey.  The view, the scenery, the other animals that provide enjoyment while waiting, all show good reasons for a trusty pair of binoculars.

Binoculars are almost always carried in toy stores, but judging the quantity of all varieties on the toy store variety isn't fair to the many manufacturers who spend so much time and money perfecting the products.  Although it is cute to hear your toddler first say the word binocular.

Photographers, hunters, police teams, the military, snipers, bird watchers, animal enthusiasts, boaters, opera lovers, and sports enthusiasts all have to choose which pair is best for them.  They're classified as a pair because they're basically two telescopes that are created to work together; so you aren't likely to hear someone say "What type of binocular do you own?"  The word binocular will normally be used in a plural sense.

Your main limit to buying a good, reliable, quality pair of binoculars is how much you can or can't spend.  If you invest several hundred dollars, you'll want a good repair service and a good warranty you can count on.

The binocular market offers high powered versions, digital camera versions, versions for different types of sports and theater events, night vision versions, and of course, toy versions.  If Dad or Mom has their binoculars, it stands to reason that their little bundle of joy will want to try a pair of their own.  It's just too irresistible to hear Mom ooo and ahhh over the birdies and then miss out on a chance to see for themselves!

Night vision binoculars are a must for anyone in a profession that requires secret night work.  How far away will you need to clearly focus?  What generation of binocular do you require?  The first generation is for the general public, the next step up allows you to see further, and so on.  Government security would require a higher generation than someone who just wants to study animals for entertainment.
