How to Find a Pair of Antique Verres Binoculars on Ebay
	
Although they are available at antique stores and some binocular shops, consumers have had a great deal of success purchasing Verres antique binoculars on Ebay. This is wonderful news for people who are already accustomed to purchasing items on Ebay. For consumers who have never done so it can be a daunting proposition.
	
One reason consumers, especially antique collectors get discouraged when trying to find an item on Ebay is because when they type in a search request they don't get any hits. If this happens frequently, antique binocular collectors need to take a deep breath and consider the possibility of seller mistakes. Collectors should try doing a search using alternate spellings. For example, try spelling Verres with one R or try dropping the S.
	
If changing the the spelling doesn't attract any hits try to think of an alternate description. If you are looking for a pair of antique binoculars made by Verres, try typing in Verres opera glasses, or even Verres apparel, or Verres accoutrement's. If your lucky, these seller error could even work in your favor. Other collectors might not consider the seller errors; the fewer people who view the item, the fewer people that are bidding on the item which should lower the price of the final bid.
	
Some antique binocular collectors might become discourage from the sheer volume of antique binoculars available on Ebay. The prospect of wading through all those hits just to find the pair of binoculars they are looking for is just too much and the give up. If you are looking for a pair of antique binoculars try narrowing down your search. Instead of antique binoculars try typing antique binoculars Verres, or Verres opera glasses, or even antique theater glasses Verres. If you are looking for a pair of Verres that are made with a special type of design, or a pair that is from a specific year, include that information in your search.
	
Collectors who are not familiar with Ebay are often stunned when they win an auction only to find that the amount the seller is charging is considerably higher then the amount they bid. The extra money is the shipping charge. The shipping charge is the amount of money that the seller estimated the item would cost them to ship. The shipping charge should be listed as part of the item's description. If the shipping cost is not clearly stated, e-mail the seller and ask them what they will charge to ship the item to your home town. Make sure you consider the cost of shipping when you are deciding how much you are willing to spend.
	
If you find an item you like, and have pleasant dealings with the seller, bookmark the seller. By bookmarking the seller you will be able to take advantage of any items they might be selling that have a buy it now price. Make sure you go to the feedback section and leave a record about how wonderful you think the seller is.
	
Before purchasing your Verres antique binoculars, ask the seller if they are in good working condition. Also ask if the seller would be willing to guarantee the condition of the binoculars.
