Leupold, Factory New, MK4 Tactical Binoculars

Leupold makes binoculars, scopes, wrenches, bases and rings for scope mounts.  Lives depend on their products, which are rugged, accurate, waterproof, and provide optical excellence.  The unique feature in their MK4 $359.99 pair of binoculars is the rotating reticle.  It allows for proper estimation of range on targets that aren't perfectly level. 

A reticle is like the crosshairs on a scope. It's a shape that is superimposed on an image to align your binoculars.  The most common reticle is a red dot, although there are several types of reticles which include:  holographic, collimated, illuminated, etched, and wire.  Good collimated binoculars are aligned from the factory with laser precision, so they'll be more expensive than binoculars that aren't collimated.  It refers to the optical and mechanical alignment of your equipment.

Binoculars have a very wide price range, changing from one brand to another, one store to another-even on the very same pair of binoculars, and the added features or quality.

Tactical gear can include everything from rifles, compression wear, scopes, gloves, knives, pistol pouches, harnesses, and canteens.  The tactical binoculars are just one more item that must be top quality for an extreme mission.  This said, the public still has access to the Factory New, Leupold MK4 Tactical Binoculars.  The fact that the public has access does not diminish these binoculars in importance or quality.  Since they are not considered a weapon, it is easier to see why they would not require a license for public use.  So, even if you don't require a special license or certificate or profession that uses these tactical binoculars, you can still have access as long as you can afford them.  It may be possible to buy them cheaper then $359.99 if you shopped around.  You could possibly find a pair at an online auction or a used military supply store.  Maybe you just want a pair so you can have bragging rights to owning something that can be used by the military.  Some people just like to have such as this in their collection, and devoted collectors wouldn't blink an eye at the $359.99 price tag!

However, the Leupold military binoculars should be factory new for the best assurance of condition and warranty.  Binoculars that are sold used might be out of collimation, which can be hard on your eyes.  The can lose collimation simply by being dropped accidentally.  It is possible to have them adjusted by a service professional.

The features of the Leupold MK4 Tactical Binoculars that you are sure to get with a factory new pair are:

1. 60-70mm adjustment range
2. phase-coated prisms
3. nitrogen purged for assurance of waterproofing and resistance to moisture
4. water and fog proof
5. rotating reticle
6. twist-up eyecups
7. light weight (25.7 oz)
8. shock absorbing armor

The Leupold Katmai series is similar in looks to the MK4 tacticals, but their prices vary from $290 to $380.  Other Leupold binoculars near the $359.99 price range are the Wind River Series.  The Golden Ring Series is a more expensive option, being closer to the $1000 range.
