What Would You Use Binoculars For?

How many different uses can one find for a pair of binoculars?  Well, the military finds them useful for top secret missions, during war, during training. The government and our police departments find them helpful to protect against crime and aid in the security of our nation.  Many nature stories have been written because of the helpful aid of a pair of binoculars!  Children use them to play spy games and learn about animals and birds.  Oceanographers use them during their studies.  Marine biologists include them in their gear.

Binoculars are meant to extend your vision capabilities, not to replace glasses or contacts, but to enhance.  They're an extra set of eyes for distance viewing.  More money spent does not necessarily mean you will get the best choice available.  You'll need to explore the options in price and in product.  More features do not mean the best buy either as some features tend to take the concentration of quality for the parts that need it most.

It is almost impossible for another person to buy you the perfect pair, although not completely out of reach.  Each person is different, therefore fit and focus will be different for each person.  No two birdwatchers are likely to have the exact same binoculars set in the exact way.  All binoculars have the basic components of magnifying glasses and prisms.

If you're likely to be using your binoculars for extended periods of time, the quality is even more important.  The bigger an object appears, the harder it is to hold a steady focus.  That's one reason tripods are useful.  The tripod is certainly important to the photographer for reasons other than to just hold a camera.  If you want to buy the combo of digital camera/binocular made as one unit, you'll want to make sure the camera focuses with the binoculars for the best results.  How large the object will be magnified is important, but it's useless if you can't get a steady, clear image.  

People with eyeglasses will need an eye relief of at least 15 mm.  The eye relief is the distance between your eye and the binoculars due to your glasses frame and lenses putting a barrier between you and the equipment.

Multi-coated lenses reduce the light lost in the binoculars, which gives you a better image.  Porro prisms are better with BAK4 than with BK7, although Porro and Roof both work well.  The larger number for the exit pupil, the better your resolution will be.  And last, but not least the diopter is your focus setting to adjust for the difference in vision from one eye to another.  Most people will have a different vision in one eye than the other.  

Whatever your choice of binoculars, there are certainly plenty of choices on the market!  There are manufacturers and dealers all over the world upgrading their products due to technological advances in an ongoing attempt to be the best and sell the most.  Binoculars are used for fun, but they are also used for very important reasons, so they must satisfy a wide consumer audience.
