What to Look for in a Good Pair of Wholesale Binoculars

A good pair of binoculars can be expensive. One way to save money is by purchasing them wholesale. One of the best places to look for a pair of wholesale binoculars is on the Internet. On-line binocular dealers are more then happy to help you with your binocular selection. They are happy to answer any questions you might have from lens quality, to stabilization, to the housing. On the average on-line binocular dealers are considerably cheaper then the retail stores. In addition to their prices, which are already lower, they are sometimes willing to haggle, especially if you are also planning on purchasing some accessories to go with your new pair of binoculars.
	
It is possible to get a nice pair of binoculars for a couple of hundred dollars, it is equally possible to fall in love with a pair of binoculars that cost a couple of thousand dollars. Know your budget and stick to it. If you are only going to spend a couple of hundred dollars don't even bother to look at the higher priced binoculars. The lower priced binoculars are generally cheaper because they have a lower field of vision and are made with cheaper lenses. Some of the high end binoculars, like the ones manufactured by Zeiss, are so well constructed that they come with a lifetime guarantee. The higher end models also tend to use technology that improves stabilization and increases view quality.
	
Pay attention to the binoculars numbers that are printed on the side of the binoculars. The first number is the amount of zoom the binocular has. The second number indicates the size of the lens. So a pair of binoculars that has the number 7X30 stamped onto the casing is a binocular that will magnify and object seven times its actual size, and has a lens size of 30mm. The lens size does not indicate lens quality, however the larger the lens size the brighter the view and the larger the field of vision.
	
Binoculars now come with all sorts of gadgets and gizmo's. Maritime binoculars are now being crafted with state-of-the-art compasses, and lightweight water proof casing. Binoculars that have built in digital cameras are becoming increasingly popular. Hunting binoculars are now being designed with range finders. Birdwatchers are thrilled with the increasing stabilization features they are finding featured in the latest birdwatching binoculars.
	
Purchasing a pair of binoculars that have been designed with coated lenses will help extend the life of your binoculars. Coated lens will  improve the binoculars contrast and image quality.
	
Make sure you ask the on-line store representative (another bonus to shopping on-line for a pair of wholesale binoculars is that allot of the times the person you are dealing with is the owner) if they have a trial period. A trial period is a specified length of time that you have to try out the binoculars. If, for whatever reason, you don't like the binoculars the store will let you return them, and refund your money. Also find out if the store offers any type of warranty.
