Why Buy Bushnell Binoculars?

Bushnell is a well-known name in the area of binoculars.  Because many good quality binoculars are hard to find once you dip below the $500 mark, this company has actually gotten good reviews on theirs.  If you want one of the best quality instruments for the lower cost, consider this brand.  It's easy to find a pair of Bushnells because they're widely available. Hunters should know the Bushnell brand as well as any one consumer group.  

Their Power View 10x50 Wide Angle Binocular does have a tendency to fog over and has a strong magnification when close to the subject.  But for the most part, they are a great bargain.  These are recommended for the casual user, birders, and astronomy buffs.

The Bushnell Power View 12x25 is a compact roof prism instrument and is one of the cheapest priced binoculars you'll find for the quality/money ratio.  At $20, it sounds too good to be true, but they've gotten great overall ratings.  They can be carried in a purse or pocket.  These are recommended for vacations, concerts, and football games, etc.  Teach your kids responsibility with this budget-friendly pair and help them learn more about nature as well without breaking your bank account!

Bushnell also makes telescopes, rifle scopes, speed guns, digital cameras, laser rangefinders, and sporting scopes.  They operate in North America, Latin America, Asia, Australia, and Africa.

Bushnell offers a list of 20 different types of binoculars with a host of styles and features in each category.  A recent list of their items on the market and the count in each category:

1. Birding series-6
2. Trophy line-12
3. Waterproof line-11
4. Tactical line-2
5. Image Stabilizing-1
6. Excursion line-8
7. Legend line-7
8. Discoverer line-2
9. Infinity line-2
10. Elite E2 line-2
11. Elite line-4

One of their impressive features is the bright light protection circuit included in the features for their Night Vision 3.1x50mm Gen. 1 binocular.  To the inexperienced user, it isn't known that bright light can harm your night vision products.  Wildlife management officers, security personnel, and rescue squads would find this feature especially helpful to protect their equipment!

Of the higher priced Bushnell binoculars, the Elite 10x50 sells for $1200 and are said to be the brightest in their class.  The Legend 19-3209 sells for around $300.
As you can see, the company offers a varied price range for consumer flexibility.  They're sold at various sporting goods stores across the United States.

Another well-received binocular in the $300 range is the Bushnell Legend 8x32 camouflage binocular.  If you have been known to get soaked when you go fishing, boating, etc., ruining the contents of your pockets is no fun.  This pair has a waterproof housing, which holds up even when submerged.

So, whether you just want to try a binocular out for the first time or are considered a professional of some kind who needs his first great pair of binoculars and finally has the money to spend, Bushnell should be able to accommodate your shopping satisfaction.
