Zeiss Binoculars

In 1846, three men, Ernst Abbe, Otto Schott, Carl Zeiss, collaborated to create a company that manufactured optical systems, industrial measurements, and medical devices. The company was based out of Jena Germany. The company was called the Zeiss company, named after Carl Zeiss, who was the optricion of the group. Ramifications of World War II, forced the Zeiss company to split into two separate companies. One of the companies is located in Oberkochen Germany and is called Zeiss AG. The second company remains located in Jena Germany and is called the Zeiss GmbH.								

Before the Zeiss company was forced to split, it was the world's largest camera producer.  Camera production is still what the company is best known for. One of the camera produced by the Zeiss Company was the Kine Exakta, a SLR camera. At the time the Kine Exakta was the smallest camera in the world.						

Currently the Zeiss company is the international leader in the fields of optical and opto-electronic technology. Today, over a hundred and fifty years after its creation, the Zeiss Company is still internationally renowned for their cameras. On May 2, 2007 the Zeiss company received two Outdoor Life Editor's Choice Awards. One of these awards was for the Camera-Eyepiece DC4. This product combines an excellent digital camera system with the Zeiss Company's Diascope Spotting Scopes. The combination of these elements makes the Camera-Eyepiece DC4 a digital scoping masterpiece. 							
The second 2007 Outdoor Life Editor Choice award was rewarded in recognition of the Zeiss Company's 10X56 Victory FL binoculars. The 10X56 Victory FL binocular represents the very first time the Zeiss Company has used their Fluorite glass in a pair of binoculars. 		

Although The Zeiss Company is pleased to report that they sell binoculars for every need,  Zeiss binoculars have enjoyed a special relationship with birdwatchers, hunters, hikers, mountain climbers, and other outdoor enthusiast. Many Zeiss binoculars include features such as; compensated optics for eyeglass wearers, advanced optical systems, rubber armor, phase coating, dual reticules, Zeiss anti-reflective coating, center focus, full size roof prisms, extra low dispersion glass, and individual focus. Lines of Zeiss binoculars include; the Diafun Series, the Victory Compact Series, Conquest Binoculars, and the Victory FL Series.
	
The Zeiss Conquest Binoculars are especially popular amongst bird lovers. They are in a the middle of the price range with prices for a new pair running anywhere from $450.00 to $800.00.
	
The Victory Series features binoculars that are 100% waterproof, designed with anti-reflective coating on the lenses, use Zeiss Fluorite glass, high impact armored housing, nitrogen filling that prevents fogging, and an adaptive lockable eye cup. The Zeiss Victory Compact series is dust resistant, these small hardy binoculars can be used for both rough and tumble outdoor activities and then be brought inside for trips to the theater and symphony.	

Consumers who are considering purchasing a pair of Zeiss binoculars should think of them as an investment. The binoculars aren't cheap, but they have a strong reputation and cutting edge technology. They are available for purchase at most binocular and sport stores.	
The Zeiss Company is so confident about the quality of their binoculars that they offer a lifetime transferable warranty.
