Some Facts about Electric RC Cars

Electric RC cars are the most popular types of RC cars today. This might be because of the fact that every RC car hobbyist begins with this type of vehicle. The operation of an electric RC car is simple enough to be understood even by children. This makes it ideal for the beginner RC car enthusiast.

Electric RC cars have a lot of advantages. These advantages are what make them appealing to the general public. RC cars, which started as toys, have now become accepted as hobby items for adults. Here are some advantages of electric RC cars:

1) Ease of use- as said before, electric RC cars are very simple machines to operate. This is the reason why many parents opt to buy these vehicles for their children during Christmas. Unlike Nitro RC cars which require some complicated procedures in order to ensure correct operation, electric RC cars only require you to put on the batteries and you're off!

This can be very important especially because of the fact that most people who buy electric RC cars are beginners in the hobby. It is often the fact that people who buy electric RC cars are buying their very first RC car kit. Although very few actually go on to become serious RC car hobbyists, the electric RC car can introduce them to the concept that RC car racing is fun.

2) Cheaper- Electric RC cars generally cost less than their gas-powered counterparts. This is the reason why they are more accessible to the general public. Electric RC cars can come as pre-assembled toys or can be bought in kits. Either way, electric RC cars can cost you so much less than Nitro models.

Economics can be very important to many people when they are looking for items to acquire. Let's face it: not all of us can afford everything that we want in life. Some people go for electric RC cars because they provide a much more economical alternative to gas-powered ones.

They are also cheaper in terms of fuel. Contrary to popular belief, gas powered RC cars cannot be fueled with gasoline. The fuel that is used in nitro RC cars is a mixture of Nitromethane and castor oil which can be bought at various specialty shops. Electric RC cars, on the other hand, only need batteries or the regular recharge in order to run. This means that you don't have to spend additional cash on fuel.

3) Indoor use- People are attracted to electric RC cars mainly because of the fact that it can be used indoors. This means that people are able to make use of their RC cars even if outdoor conditions are unfavorable.

What makes electric RC cars so different from Nitro RC cars? Well, it is a combination of two factors:

1) Noise- Electric RC cars run quietly. This makes them ideal for usage indoors. Nitro RC cars rely on combustion to run, which means that they can make a lot of noise. This is especially true if someone tried to operate a Nitro RC car indoors. The sound would reverberate off the walls and cause quite a racket.

2) Smoke- Since Electricity produces clean energy, there are no undesirable byproducts of running an electric RC car. However, electric RC cars need to be charged regularly which means that you might not be able to enjoy them for as long a time as you would enjoy a Nitro RC car.
 