Getting You Started With Gas Powered RC Car Or Truck

There are many ways on how to start with gas-powered RC car or truck. There are many realistic features offered by these remote-controlled cars and trucks. They come in a variety of styles and types in the industry. In choosing one, there are many considerations you should take before eventually owning one. 

Radio-controlled cars and trucks lack the power and running time. But if you want to consider, you can convert them into gas powered RC cars, with the use of nitromethane-based fuel. This fuel provides RC cars a level or realism or performance, which are absent on other battery-powered vehicles. Aside from this, they are also highly customizable making it possible for you to integrate RC car accessories and personalize them. There are options of engines and transmitters available to allow you to choose one depending on how you’d want the RC car works.

To help you begin in finding the right gas-powered RC car, the following are the factors you should consider:

1.	Engines. The most important aspect in a gas RC car, you can choose from the variety of engine models available to choose from. Generally, most RC cars use a specific type, which is commonly called as "glow" engine. It is a 2-cycle combustion engine, which creates power to the RC car preparing it for realism that also produces exhaust in the process. In replacement of spark plugs utilized by automotive engines, a "glow plug" is used for this engine. It is being heated in turn by a "glow starter." The heat will be held by the "glow plug" to which this is now used to fire engine strokes for rest of the running power. 

2.	Fuel. Just like the actual gasoline used in automobiles, the nitromethane-based gas fuel the RC cars. The fuel mixture is formulated with special lubricants so that it protects the engine from the excessive heat produced by the combustion process. The lubricants are the same with the gas-oil you use with your small engine equipments or some chainsaws. Accessories such as a special bottle pump may be needed to get nitro-fuel into your fuel tank of the RC car. Filters are also used on these cars and the same with your automobile they require replacement at a proper time interval. 

3.	Radio. Radio controller is used to control the RC car and could be same type used on electrically-powered RC cars. It is radio controller operates on 2-channel system that needs batteries to make it work. Additional batteries would be needed to power the receiver though there are other receivers that are fed from the motor itself. 

4.	Sport or competition. This is an aspect you most considered when choosing body style. There are different options for you; you have choices from sedans, trucks, buggies, stock cars, and other popular car models. These are basically available in two versions: sports, and competition version. Sports RC cars typically cost less than the car you intend to race, which of course would need more power and higher speeds. Ball bearings and oil shocks are some of the advanced options included for the competition RC car version. 

Depending on the type you need, RC car kits and ready-to-car or RTR kits are available. If you are a beginner, RTR kits are what you need as this comes out of the box ready for the fuel. RC car kit, on the other hand, requires heavy work but allows you to decide how they would be put together. 


