Tips and Tricks in Building a RC Car
 
If you have a heart of a kid and are fond of playing RC cars and don’t mind getting dirty, then this article if you. 

Yes. You definitely should engage in building your personal radio controlled vehicle for on-road car racing or off-road car game. This is fun, though it needs a little effort especially when you have to assemble you car. 

They say assembling your own RC car is complex but when it comes to maintenance and repair nothing compares knowing what you had place inside your car.

If you like to cut your expenses, try to construct your own toy car. Building your personal car is more practical since you can always decide yourself the parts you will use. In addition, you can also show your creativity in building your own model car. You can also purchase the best parts or accessories in definitely lower cost. Other costs like fuel and batteries are just similar whether you assembled your own car or buy a car package.

Building your RC car may consume longer time. But it will still depend on the manufacturer of the car, the type of car, and your knowledge in building a radio controlled car. 

The trick is to always follow and read the instructions carefully. Never expect finishing your own kit in just a matter of time. It is advisable to have a break from time to time because it can help you think better plus you’ll get new ideas on how to reassemble your kit easily.

Here are some more tips to consider before you start building your own car. 

1. The Car instruction booklet. Read first all the contents of the manual before building your RC car. Understand properly the guidelines to get ahead complicated steps and be able to prevent it not wasting your time. Check from time to time if you are on the right track and careful not to skip steps so that you won’t keep on starting all over gain.

2. Always have a Pencil and notepad. Aside from taking key notes in your guide booklet, you should also concentrate on the screw setting and positions. Focus your attention to rights and lefts, rears and fronts. Although it is usually marked on it spots, it is still important to make supplementary notes so that you’ll understand them correctly.

3. An organized building space. It must have a dry and clean hand towel to avoid car parts from rolling and bouncing and will suck up any fluid you spill or tip out. Be careful to construct your pit where you would not be disturbed. Be sure to cover up the car you made with a towel or cloth when you’re not there to avoid lost of pieces. And lastly, put an ample light like a desk lamp for you to see the tiny parts and inside of your car.

4. Containers. It is advisable to store your mini parts in hardware trays, use empty containers, muffin tins, and medium sized boxes are some propositions to make things organized. Be sure to keep everything separated and sorted when you’re building your kit.

5. Set of tools. You’ll need to have good basic tools such as Philips-head screwdrivers, a series of jeweler’s screwdrivers and a 1¼ 4-inch flat blade screwdriver are considered sufficient. A pair of slip-joint and needle nose pliers and nitro models requires control-lock pliers that will be used for grasping flywheels. Flush cutter is also needed for oil lines and parts that need to be close and clean cut.

If you’re a beginner in building RC car you must have patience because it is difficult to build one if you do not have experience on it. Keep in mind that building your personal RC car can also be fun and rewarding. 
