Don't Blink: The Different Types of RC Race Cars

RC cars are made to have fun. However, there are some people who take their "fun" very seriously. These are the people who build serious RC race cars and actually pit their skills against each other. This is actually not a new trend. People have started racing model cars even in the early 1940's. However, the technology during that time was insufficient to properly control the models. These cars were control using a tether and thus, could only run around in circles. True RC race cars were introduced in the late 1960's. These RC race cars could be controlled from a separate unit and be raced around a track.

There are different classifications of RC race cars according to fuel use and terrain. This is because of the fact that different types of RC race cars may be called superior in different conditions. Here are some classifications:

According to power source:

1) Electric- Electric RC race cars are generally lighter than gas-powered models. They also have the advantage of having more torque. Another advantage to electric RC race cars is the fact that these models are generally more responsive to the controls. This means that a person using an electric RC car will be able to react faster to different conditions on the track. There is also the fact that electric RC cars are generally cleaner in terms of fuel and in terms of the accumulated dirt during races. This means that electric RC race cars are easier to maintain than gas-powered models.

One disadvantage to electric RC race cars is the fact that it can take a long time for people to recharge the batteries. There is also the issue of speed: although electric RC race cars accelerate faster, they generally reach lower top speeds than gas-powered models.

2) Nitro- Nitro RC race cars are powered with a miniature engine that uses a mixture of Nitromethane and lubricant as fuel. Nitro RC race cars are known to reach record-breaking top speeds -much faster than what electric models are capable of. They can also run for longer times and are easier to refuel, which means that they can be enjoyed longer.

The disadvantages to this type of RC car are rooted in the fact that combustion is the process that makes it work. Combustion produces smoke and a lot of noise, which means it can't be used indoors. It also produces a lot of dirt, which means that Nitro RC race cars generally require more effort to clean. A nitro RC race car also requires regular tuning and maintenance in order to remain in top form.

According to terrain:

1) On-road- Some types of RC race cars are used to compete in paved race tracks. These RC race cars are specially designed to achieve tops speeds and maintain them during races. The wheels of these RC race cars are often designed for maximum speed and minimum friction. 

2) Off-road- These RC race cars are made to accelerate and maintain control even when the race track is not paved. These RC race cars are specially designed to grip the ground and maintain top speed. The key to off-road racing is high bottom end torque. This allows off-road RC race cars to dominate the competition when encountering tricky obstacles such as mounds.

