Some Traxxas RC Car Models

If there's one thing that Traxxas RC cars are designed for, it would be speed. Each car is designed to dominate its category. You don't believe it? Here are some models:

1) Jato 3.3 RTR Nitro- This is one stadium truck that is sure to catch everyone's attention when it revves into action. This Traxxas RC car is able to take on any other RC car on pavement and it doesn't stop there! When the pavement ends, some RC cars have trouble getting a good grip on other types of terrain but not his Traxxas RC car! This model features Anaconda tire treads, enabling it to maintain a good grip on off-road courses. This means that you can other RC cars can say bye-bye to this Traxxas RC car as it leaves a dust trail in their headlights.

2) TMaxx 3.3 RTR Nitro- This is one monster RC truck that's truly a monster! This Traxxas RC car is able to go faster than 55 MPH! Isn't that amazing? This Traxxas RC car carries the well-known label of the Tmaxx to new levels of excellence. This is because this Traxxas RC car carries with it the same perfect combination of balance, size, speed and power but the new TRX 3.3 engine brings this combination to new heights of power. People who know about real monster trucks know that bottom-end torque is the key to dominating every type of terrain. This is also the key to this Traxxas RC car's success in the field.

3) Spirit Truck- This Traxxas RC car embodies a "going back to the roots" of RC car driving. It is easy to drive, adventurous and most of all, it is fun! Many RC car models available today are too competitive. Drivers who used to relax through RC car racing experience even more stress when they compete. Why go for all of that? This Traxxas RC car reminds people of why RC car racing was established in the first place -because it's fun!

This Traxxas RC car also comes pre-assembled. So you don't have to do anything but take it out of the box and start driving. And before you start thinking that it's a toy-grade RC car, you should know that this Traxxas RC car is filled with technology specifically designed for hobby-class racing. 

4) Nitro 4-tec 3.3- "Blink and you'll miss it" is the phrase used by enthusiasts to describe this Traxxas RC car. This is because it is designed for speed. The TRX- 3.3 engine is quite possibly the most powerful small block engine available today. With it, this Traxxas RC car can have speeds of up to 70 MPH! That's even faster than what some state laws allow! This Traxxas RC car is made for experienced players who have the reflexes necessary to drive at top speeds. A person using this Traxxas RC car is faced with the mental challenge of remaining in control while at speeds where you are nearly out of control. Can you handle the rush?

5) Bandit- This Traxxas RC car is what every enthusiast needs to fulfill his or her need for entertainment and speed at a very affordable price. First of all, this Traxxas RC car runs on electricity, which means you don't have to spend additional cash on fuel. It is also very durable, which means you can spend less time maintaining it and more time showing other RC car enthusiasts your dust trail.
 