Title: 
Athlon 64 Processors

Word Count:
315

Summary:
For a long time Intel has been leading the market in processor sales and popularity but AMD is finally putting a stop to that.  With the release of their Athlon 64 processor, with 64 bit computing capabilities, they have been slowly but surely regaining the market back from Intel.


Keywords:
athlon 64, processor


Article Body:
For a long time Intel has been leading the market in processor sales and popularity but AMD is finally putting a stop to that.  With the release of their Athlon 64 processor, with 64 bit computing capabilities, they have been slowly but surely regaining the market back from Intel.  

The Athlon 64 processors have been around for a while now and they have proven themselves the market leaders in processing power.  As we know AMD processor run at a lot slower speeds than Intel processors making them cooler to run.  This has eliminated the need for expensive cooling equipment and opened the doorway for overclocking.

Although AMD hit the target by releasing their 64 bit processor long before Intel did, they are not standing still.  They have been constantly upgrading their line up to increase speed and efficiency.  This is apparent with their fx series processors and their dual core processors.

The fx series processor are the king of the hill at AMD.  They are the most powerful processor that is available.  They show blistering speeds for CPU intensive functions such video encoding and gaming.  They also show great performance in database driven work and most other aspects of computing.

The dual-core line of processor are the ultimate in multi-tasking.  They provide the power of two processor running in unison while still being able to fit in a single processor motherboard.  Although these processors are essentially two processors in one, they are rather pricy and may not be everyones cup of tea.

Intel is trying to fight back by forming an alliance with Apple.  All macs are now available with Intel processors.  Whether this will be profitable for Intel only time will tell.

With competition growing stronger from AMD this can only mean increased benefits for the consumer.  As the war between Intel and AMD intensifies, the consumer will benefit from lowered prices, and increased quality in their processors.


