Title: 
Buying Printer Cartridges

Word Count:
487

Summary:
Printing has become an absolute necessity for people all over the nation and world these days. Whether a person needs to print an essay for a school project or a business plan to present to their peers, having a reliable method of translating work done on a computer to a sheet of paper is a must.


Keywords:
printer cartridges, HP, Canon, Lexmark, Pitney Bowes, Epson, Xerox


Article Body:
Printing has become an absolute necessity for people all over the nation and world these days. Whether a person needs to print an essay for a school project or a business plan to present to their peers, having a reliable method of translating work done on a computer to a sheet of paper is a must. One important part of a printer that often gets overlooked in the process, however, is the printer cartridge. Containing the ink necessary to write lines and create diagrams on a blank sheet of paper, printer cartridges are something that no printer can be without. It is important, therefore, that anyone who plans on using his or her printer on a continuous basis have a reliable method to replace their printer cartridges when they inevitably dry out of ink.

      One of the most common mistakes that is made is to buy a printer cartridge only after the previous one has become useless. The simple truth is that these cartridges are often very expensive and are not always easily acquirable. Because of these attributes, there are several strategies to employ when purchasing printer cartridges for the future.

      The first thing to remember is that printer cartridges come in a great variety and that a person can’t just plug the first one they see at the store into their printer and expect results. You have to buy a printer cartridge that is compatible with your printer, or you will have wasted your time and money. For example, if you own a Canon printer, it would be foolish to buy a Lexmark printer cartridge. If you are not sure about which cartridges fit your printer, jot down the printer brand and model and ask a sales representative to help you out.

      Also remember that while printer cartridges are quite expensive, it is best to get backups when they go on sale. If for example, you own a HP printer and see a sale on all HP and Epson printer cartridges during Thanksgiving, you should head down to the store and pick some up. There is no point in waiting until you really need the printer cartridge to buy them and paying double or triple the price. On a similar note, if the sale were for Xerox and Pitney Bowes printer cartridges, don’t buy them just because they are discounted. If the printer cartridges are not compatible with your printer, they are basically worthless. But overall, being a smart consumer and thinking ahead will do nothing but benefit you in terms of saving time and money.

      Overall there are many different printer cartridges, from Xerox to Pitney Bowes, and many different printers, from Canon brands to Lexmark, which they can be used with. Knowing which printer cartridge to buy and taking advantage of sales can go a long way in ensuring that your printer will be working with high quality whenever it is needed!


