Title: 
Carbonless paper roll producing a foam wrapped package.

Word Count:
434

Summary:
Carbonless paper roll uses a chemical reaction between two different contacting coatings to transfer an image when pressure is applied. A paper that is most often used for multiple part forms.


Keywords:
Carbonless Paper Roll


Article Body:
The Carbonless Paper is offered in the form of reels and sheets. Reels are available in different sizes from 8"to 38" as per the requirements of the customers. Sheets are available in different sizes from 18"x 23", 18"x 24" or any other size as required. Our papers are available in white, pink, green, blue and yellow colour.

Carbonless paper uses a chemical reaction between two different contacting coatings to transfer an image when pressure is applied. A paper that is most often used for multiple part forms, it contains a chemical coating on the front side (designated as CF) or on the back side (designated as CB), or on both sides (designated as CFB). When a handwritten or machine impression occurs on the first sheet of multiple parts, the impression transfers from one page or ply to the next due to the bursting of tiny microcapsules in the chemical coating used to release a darkened copy of the impression occurring on the first sheet.

A method and apparatus are provided for producing a foam wrapped package for protecting a roll of pressure-sensitive carbonless copy paper. Interleaved foam and film are wrapped under tension around the outer periphery of the roll of carbonless paper by selectively rotating the roll and separately feeding packaging foam and stretch film toward the rotating roll.

The present invention relates to a process for producing a foam wrap package, and, more particularly, to a process for wrapping and protecting a roll of pressure-sensitive carbonless copy paper by simultaneously wrapping interleaved layers of stretch film and packaging foam onto the roll of carbonless paper.

Heretofore, stretch wrapping machinery manufacturers have marketed equipment which combines spiral wrapping of stretch film with limited non-spiral wrapping of a single face corrugated medium or a kraft wrap. Traditionally, machines have been developed which provide foam wrap in one operation and then kraft wrap in a second operation, and have required a substantial amount of the wrapping process to be performed by hand.

Problems have occurred in the prior art with the existing foam/kraft packages. Specifically, these packages using kraft wrap cannot apply foam over the edge of a roll of pressure-sensitive carbonless paper without producing a bulky edge that makes roll stacking difficult. The absence of foam over the edge of the roll of carbonless paper leaves the roll subject to edge damage. Prior to this time a sufficient wrapping procedure or a final wrapped package has not been achieved in the art which would require only a relatively limited capital cost and produce a resultant packaged product which is easy to handle.

Tag: Carbonless Paper Roll


