Title: 
CD/DVD Burners

Word Count:
342

Summary:
Some people think with the standardization of DVD burners on new computer systems, CD burners have become obsolete.  Most people with CD burners will tend to disagree, as do I.

Before going out and purchasing a CD Burner or DVD Burner the requirements of the individual need to be determined allowing the best choice to be selected.


Keywords:
CD, DVD, burner


Article Body:
Some people think with the standardization of DVD burners on new computer systems, CD burners have become obsolete.  Most people with CD burners will tend to disagree, as do I.

Before going out and purchasing a CD Burner or DVD Burner the requirements of the individual need to be determined allowing the best choice to be selected.

A DVD Burner is used for copying or duplicating a DVD disc or to burn video files into DVD Format so they can be played on a home DVD player. DVD discs allow Gigabytes of Data to be burned to the disc, in some cases a whole hard drive of data, making a tempting choice to use as a data back-up tool.
We need to remember that to be able to read the DVD, a DVD ROM is required.  If you are in an office environment and need to use the disc on multiple computers then this may cause an issue as most computers in an office don’t come installed with a DVD-ROM – if they do then it’s a waste of money on the IT departments part.

Although CD Burners are somewhat slower than today’s DVD burners they do have more pros than con’s when comparing to a DVD Burner for data back-ups. Blank media Discs for CD Burners are either 650MB or 700MB in size, yes a lot smaller than that of a DVD disc.

CD-R discs can either hold data or audio and can be read in almost any CD-ROM and if the CD-R is made into an audio disc then its possible to read the disc in a Hi-Fi or a car CD Player – you will need to make sure the drive has the ability to read CD-R media, most newer models of CD-Players are compatible to read CD-R media.

DVD burners only have the advantage of size of CD burners.  Now that DVD burners are becoming more and more popular, the prices of CD burners and media are dropping dramatically making them a very cost effective purchase.


