Title: 
Did I Choose The Best Laptop Computer

Word Count:
436

Summary:
key ways to choosing your first or latest laptop computer


Keywords:
laptop,notebooks,computers,accessories,toshiba,dell,acer.verizon


Article Body:
Did I choose the best laptop ?

Keys to choosing the best laptop computer :

Who is the laptop user? When choosing a laptop computer, it is important to understand who will be using it.., school student, college student, professional businessman ,office worker, etc.

Where will the laptop be used? For heavy mobile users such as college students and  professionals, size, weight and battery life are very important. So when looking over the reviews and relevant specs, keep those factors in mind. The average high school student uses a laptop from room to room in their house, and have loads of access to AC power most of the time. So for these users, the factors listed above may not be as critical.

How will the laptop be used? The more mobile the user, the more durability is needed. Heavy users ie sales reps spend a great deal of time start and shutting down their laptops every day. an average heavy user will open and shut their laptop computer 5 times a day. Although that may not seem alot of wear and tear, there is also the issue of general handling. Heavy users will be traveling from location to location, in and out of cars,on and off planes etc on  a constant basis. This increases the likelihood of damage to the laptop computer, via dropping, bumping and banging, drink spills on the keyboard, etc....

Should I buy a service contract for my laptop? the answer is  YES. When you think about carrying around a fragile piece of electronics costing $1000 or more, the price of a typical service contract is a bargain. for a relatively small price $100  per laptop computer, its worth it to for you peace of mind.

.How much should I expect to pay for a laptop? It used to be hard to find a quality laptop under $600; however, this is no longer true. There are several companies with great offers, starting around £300. The options / upgrades you select have a large impact in what you can expect to pay. Having a list of what you want in a laptop, such as memory, speed, hard drive size, burners, etc..will help when you go shopping. Although online laptop computer  manufacturers allow a great deal of customization, the general public are easily serviced with a “off the shelf” standard laptop computer.

What Laptop Brand Should I Select? the worlds your oyster in this respect with the amount of laptop computer manufactures out there,with different colours and sizes its everyones personal choice , I myself find that acer have all the features which service my needs.
  Laptop computer  www.discount-notebooks.net


