Title: 
DSL Is Really Very Easy To Understand - Needs and Compatibility

Word Count:
572

Summary:
Easy to understand DSL information plus compatibility tests from the  http://paradisewireless.com/dsl.htm webpage. It is no big deal to get an understanding about what it is, how it works and how it compares to your other choices for getting high speed internet access.


Keywords:
DSL, high speed internet access, cable modem , dsl modem, dialup, dialup modem, DSL service, install DSL, DSL FAQ, high speed internet, internet, internet access, modem, how does DSL work, ISP, internet service provider, DSL access,


Article Body:
Confused about DSL? So was I at one time! However, it is no big deal to get an understanding about what it is, how it works and how it compares to your other choices for getting high speed internet access.

Faster and faster dialup telephone modems were all the rage, until DSL and cable modems came about. We can laughingly look back at those old slow modems and the tell tale dialing sounds that you could hear as they attempted to log on.

You may also wonder why DSL needs a telephone connection. Simply put, the telephone company has special equipment in place to handle DSL traffic. Even though it operates on your existing telephone line, it does not interfere with your regular telephone service.  You will never know that DSL is operating in the background.

Once you upgrade, you will wonder why you ever bothered with the slow way. You will equate it to walking backwards.

You will need a relatively newer computer to be able to use DSL. Do not worry though; the requirements are not that high. However, if you have a really old machine you will need to get a better one. You will not be sorry you did.

The minimum requirements  are a Windows 98 operating system, a 233 MHz machine, a CD drive, 64-128 MB memory and either a USB or 10Base-T Ethernet port.  There is no need to worry if you do not understand any of that. You can always use your existing computer connection to have your computer checked for compatibility. 

Just follow the link at http://paradisewireless.com/dsl.htm and you’ll easily find the systems requirements area where they will check the computer to be sure it is compatible. You do not have to sign up or download anything either. Merely click the link and they’ll do the rest. If everything is OK you’ll get a message that says “Congratulations, your computer meets the minimum system requirements necessary to run DSL”.

Besides a decent computer, you will also need to somewhat near the DSL office. It is even possible that your neighbor can get DSL while you cannot. You can also do a preliminary check online to see if you should be able to get service.

There are some other factors that may limit your ability to get DSL in your present location. Basically, it might work and it might not. But, as your telephone provider upgrades it may be possible in the future. 

Getting high speed internet access with a cable modem is usually less finicky than DSL. However, cable access usually comes at a higher price. 

To install DSL on your computer is not hard. If you sign up for it online, you will get an installation kit in the mail. Give your self at least an hour for the process. Open the box, unpack the modem and look at the install directions. Follow the directions in the order given and you should have no trouble.

If your installation does not work, call the support line. If they cannot assist you in getting it to work, just send it all back. Be patient and do not let anything or anyone intimidate you.

If DSL works for your situation, then you will be very satisfied. A fast internet connection is something that you can only fully appreciate once you have experienced it. You will never want to go back to dialup.


