Title: 
General office supplies of barcode ribbon.

Word Count:
640

Summary:
Some of the best on the market today are wax and resin ribbons. It has been proven that they are the most reliable and practical on the market.


Keywords:
Barcode Ribbon


Article Body:
Exclusively From Tele-Paper Malaysia - the preferable Paper Product Manufacturer.

Modern man has come a long way since the times of ancient papyrus and mural paintings. In today's time and world, we tend to have lot facilities that we have made for our selves to better cope with all the standards that we have put up. Modern technology and ingenuity has helped us develop a lot of useful things to help us with the modern day life and problems that we encounter in our lives. Having to sustain the society that we have created one must develop certain ways to do that: this days we benefit from a lot of things like modern manufacturing. To further increase the productivity and the results of office work people have developed a way to speed things up. Besides the normal very used computers, a lot of expendables have to be used for a proper work to be done. One of the most expendables is barcode ribbon (or better known as bar code ribbon).  Some of the branded names available in the supermarket stores are Prinzet, Sonoroll, Sono-roll, Sonofilm and Sono.

Some of the best on the market today are wax and resin ribbons. It has been proven that they are the most reliable and practical on the market. Wax ribbon has been made in such a way that they contain a lot of wax based materials in their colorant substance. It has been made this way because the wax has a lower melting point thus the energy required to print the ink being lower. Waxes have been showed to be more efficient than resins in the usage of bar code. On the other hand the down side would be the fact that the durability of wax is smaller than in the case of resins. This is because wax is softer than resin and the fact that it is made with only one layer of colorant. Testing and a lot of using of wax ribbons has shown that they are best used at general purpose labeling, and other general activities that do not require coated substrates, matte coated substrates and other film based tagging. The best usage for this kind would be in the situations where the time needed to print the image on the label is very small and also if the life of the label is of short term. 

With the help of modern technology and new found materials, the time for the image to be printed has been shortened to a near 8 to 12 inches per second, a remarkable fact if we think about it. Another advantage of the wax based barcode ribbons would be the fact that they are actually the least expensive of their type. Improvements have also been done so that the absorption capability of the substrate surface is increased drastically. 

The best Paper Manufacturer like Tele-Paper from Malaysia (the preferable Paper Product Manufacturer) have made a name for their-selves in being very reliable by providing import and export to the world with high quality products and great customer supports. Printing of labels and office work has greatly improved thanks to companies like this that put a lot of time into developing and testing products for a better reliability. Please kindly check with our Tele-paper sales personnel on the compatibility with the printers prior to placing your orders with us. We provide sample rolls for testing purposes. Life is easy with us.

Tele-Paper is the principal operating company in the Group and is one of the largest converter or printers in Malaysia and other South East Asian countries of thermal paper products such as receipt rolls for kiosks, ATM's and cash registers in the retail industry, security lottery tickets, medical paper and other thermal based products; business forms and thermal transfer ribbons for a wide range of bar code printers.


