Title: 
Get A Computer Flat Screen You Will Not Regret It

Word Count:
422

Summary:
There really isn’t any reason not to get a computer flat screen if you are putting together a new computer. The amount of money you save by choosing a CRT monitor won’t be very much anymore, and you’ll have a bulky piece of hazardous waste to contend with as a result.

I strongly suspect that CRT monitors (and CRT televisions for that matter) are going to slowly phase out of the market and it won’t be long before they virtually disappear.

When computer flat screens first...


Keywords:
computer flat screens,crt monitors,lcd monitors


Article Body:
There really isn’t any reason not to get a computer flat screen if you are putting together a new computer. The amount of money you save by choosing a CRT monitor won’t be very much anymore, and you’ll have a bulky piece of hazardous waste to contend with as a result.

I strongly suspect that CRT monitors (and CRT televisions for that matter) are going to slowly phase out of the market and it won’t be long before they virtually disappear.

When computer flat screens first started coming out a several years ago they were of course very expensive. Also, they had a lot of worrisome technical issues like dead pixels and such.

Today, however, the technology has been improved upon a lot, and it has come down in price a ton. Getting a good name brand computer flat screen is only marginally more expensive than an equivalently sized CRT monitor.

The first and most obvious difference I’ve noticed is the superior picture quality in my new LCD computer flat screen. It really puts my old CRT piece of junk to shame. My new computer flat screen is sharper, clearer, and has a much better refresh rate.

I used to get a lot of eyestrain and subsequent headaches for staring at my old CRT computer screen a while, but I’ve yet to feel any of that with my computer flat screen.

Next time you find yourself in a CompUSA, Fry’s Electronics, Costco, or some other store that sells monitors, check out there selection of computer flat screens. Heck, if you have a free minute or two just do a quick search for them online. You might be surprised on how cheap they’ve become recently!

Another great part of having a computer flat screen is of course the smaller size. Computer flat screens are incredibly space efficient. I had to devote pretty much the entire surface of my desk to my old CRT screen, but with my LCD monitor I suddenly have lots of room to do other things with.

It’s all about computer flat screens these days. I recently dumped my old CRT monitor (not easy by the way, CRT screens are considered hazardous waste and you have to use a municipal collection service to do it legally) and picked up my first computer flat screen and I’m just loving it. I can’t believe I waited so long to make the plunge; it has made such a huge difference for me.


