Title: 
How to Sell Used Computers

Word Count:
519

Summary:
There is a huge market for used computers because of their affordability. If you are planning to dispose your used computer, read on to learn what you should do to get the best deal while doing so.


Keywords:
used computer, used computers, cheap used computer, stolen computer, laptops, used laptops, refurbished laptops, cheap used laptops


Article Body:
Many people sell their used computers for a variety of reasons.  Some sell their used computer instead of throwing them as a trash get some money from them, while others sell their used computers to buy new computers with the latest features and technology.    Not only individuals sell their used computers, but also large numbers of organizations or firms sell their used computers.  They do so because the computer systems may require maintenance and repairs, after some time due to the decrease in performance seen in the computers after some years.   Instead of spending more money on the maintenance and repairs they sell and gain money, as there is a great demand for used computers.  Such companies easily sell their used computers online through auctions or exchange for new computers with less effort in no time.

Used computers are bought by either students who do not have good savings or earnings or they are bought by educational institutions like the schools and universities. Some parents buy used computers for their children just for browsing the Internet and to play games.  For this purpose, a used computer is more than sufficient than spending huge amounts on a new computer. These target segments however require used computers in a good working condition as well as for a lesser price.  Most of the used computers are sold in the online market, as it attracts all sorts of buyers.  There are many numbers of online classifieds or auctions or online dealers who sell used computers.  Selling used computers are a better option than throwing them as trash or keeping them in a corner occupying space and collecting dust.  

The first and important step is to improve the appearance of the used computer by wiping it clean free of dust and dirt.  Any buyer would get impressed by the way the computer looks, looks make the first impression.  The selling price of a clean used computer is always better than the one, which is full of dirt and dust.

All the software manual, operating system and other supporting discs that came with the computer should be in tact. This will add more value, when selling the used computer and also will make the buyer consider the person who is selling the used computer as a trusted seller.

The most important thing to do before selling a used computer is to erase all the personal details or information from the hard disk or drive.  Instead of just putting them in the trash folder it is very important to purge all the personal data from the computer’s memory, even invisible backup files can cause danger.  A tech savvy person’s help can be got if the seller does not know how to do it.  If not done it may lead to accessing the bank accounts, or emails by any unknown person leading to identity theft. For that when there is a remedy.  Unused scanners, printers can also be bundled with the sale of the used computer.   A buyer may sometime value it.  The benefits or features of the computer can be highlighted for better sales.


