Title: 
IT Consultants: Desktops, Notebooks and PDAs as Profit Centers

Word Count:
325

Summary:
IT consultants often don't really consider the benefits of selling PC hardware. Desktop, laptops and PDAs continue to be profit centers for IT consultants.


Keywords:
IT consultants, IT consultant, computer consultant, computer consultants


Article Body:
If you’re one of those IT consultants who breaks out in hives at the thought of getting your hands dirty with low-margin sales of desktop PCs, notebooks or PDAs, you may not be looking far enough beyond the box. In this article, we’ll look at how to profit from your clients’ needs for full-service support of desktops, notebooks and PDAs.

IT Consultants Roles as Technology Influencers

IT consultants who have been in business awhile already know that smart PC hardware selection can make installation, support, troubleshooting and upgrading work much easier.

Selecting the right PCs and related peripherals can dramatically boost system reliability, which helps to keep your valued clients happy. Pick the wrong PC hardware and well, let’s not even go there! When PC hardware starts acting up, clients get peeved . . . and clients may actually “blame” your IT consultants for their IT-related problems.

As a general rule of thumb, it’s a good idea to stay on the “good” side of the folks that authorize your service agreements and sign your big retainer checks.

New Advances in Technology

Despite all the advances during the past few years, the venerable desktop, notebook and server have remained the staples of the PC hardware world. Sure, there are newcomers. Since the mid-‘90s, both Palm and Microsoft have spearheaded competing handheld standards. But the main PC hardware world has not seen much change by IT consultants.  

And now there are special-purpose rack-mountable servers, with surely more to come, dedicated to the unique demands of serving high-volume Web sites.

IT Consultants Have a Huge Profit Opportunity with Hardware Sales

IT consultants play an extremely important role as your clients’ primary technology influencer – the one who recommends what to buy. This responsibility presents a huge business opportunity for IT consultants with desktops, notebooks and PDAs.

Copyright MMI-MMVI, Computer Consultants Secrets. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


