Title: 
2006 Audi A3: Heading Towards the American Market

Word Count:
530

Summary:
The 2006 Audi A3 has revolutionized the automobile industry. It has made its own set of standards as per its class. It provides appeal, personality, dynamism, ambition, and ambience.


Keywords:
auto parts,Audi accessories


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
The 2006 Audi A3 has revolutionized the automobile industry. It has made its own set of standards as per its class. It provides appeal, personality, dynamism, ambition, and ambience. And that is all in one vehicle. When Audi was creating this vehicle, it was a crucial moment for them. The company had created the 2006 Audi A3 so as to seek the niche and claim equality with its rivals from Bavaria and Stuttgart. This time, the 2006 Audi A3 will make its way to the United States automobile market. 

This new vehicle from Audi provides a responsive and adjustable ride that is very much like the BMW Compact. The 2006 Audi A3 has been specially crafted so as to provide tactile qualities for its major controls. Like its throttle pedal as an example. The Audi A3’s throttle pedal now pivots, just like a BMW, from the floor. The brake has also been ideally positioned so as to provide great heel and toe control. The long throw gearshift of the old Audi A3 has been replaced and discarded for a unit that is faster and is more positive. New for the vehicle is an electromechanical steering and it varies it assistance as per the vehicle’s speed. 

The European predecessor of the Audi A3 had soft curves. This new one has been given a harder edge. It sports a stronger and a more boastful demeanor. It has high set shoulder lines that gives the Audi A3 a more hunched and determined stance. It is less elegant than its older sibling however it sports and exudes more power. In order to provide more cabin space, this vehicle has had its shape expanded. The wheelbase welcomed in an additional 2.5 inches. It also is 1.1 inches wider than before. Every passenger is given luxury and comfort inside its spacious and roomy interior. The chairs also are comfortable and provide utmost support. The atmosphere inside the cabin simply provides premium quality. This is given more emphasis as Audi had also given the Audi A3 round air vents and easy to use air conditioning controls. 

The 2006 Audi A3 has been bequeathed and bestowed with features that include power outside mirrors with defoger, a power rear window wiper, side indicator lights mounted in its front fenders, the anti-lock brake system (ABS) with vacuum power assist, Sideguard™ head protection airbags for its front and rear passengers, power central locking system with safety unlock feature, the LATCH system, child safety rear door locks, manually adjustable driver and front passenger seats with active head restraints, power sport driver seat and manually adjustable sport front passenger seat, 60/40 split-fold rear seat, cloth seat upholstery, leather seating surfaces, a 4-spoke steering wheel, electronic cruise control with coast, resume and acceleration features, and illuminated glove box, rear cargo area, lighter and ashtray, power windows with power retention. 

The new 2006 Audi A3’s total package of design and performance puts it at the head of its own class. Maintaining the Audi A3’s performance can be well taken cared of by superior Audi auto parts from Auto Accessories Giant. Auto Accessories Giant’s extensive array of maximum quality Audi accessories are available 24 hours a day.
</p>


