Title: 
2006 Honda Accord: Still Topping Lists

Word Count:
497

Summary:
One of the best vehicles in the midsize category in the American automobile market, the 2006 Honda Accord has been redesigned and re-engineered. It is not only one of the best vehicles, it also is one of highest selling as well.


Keywords:
auto parts,Honda,Honda Accord,Honda parts,Honda accessories


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
One of the best vehicles in the midsize category in the American automobile market, the 2006 Honda Accord has been redesigned and re-engineered. It is not only one of the best vehicles, it also is one of highest selling as well. It sports a good combination of high technology and quality. It is very much usable for everyday operations and functions. Its main competitor is the Toyota Camry. It is offered in both sedan and coupe styles. It has also been made available in three trim levels that comprise of the DX, the LX, and the EX. The vehicle has a maximum passenger capacity of five people. 

Taking a look around the Honda Accord, the vehicle has a design that has angular headlamps as well as sharpened noses which is very much like that of the Acura RSX’s. It is very much muscular and very agile. The vehicle also has carefully sculpted combination of concave and convex surfaces in its corners and sides. If you try to go inside its cabin, the interior is very smooth, firm, and quiet. It holds wide seats that are very comfortable. This is due to the springs and urethane padding beneath is. This also reduces vibration much. These seats have the option of a manual height adjustment or power adjustments. 

The entire trunk of the 2006 Honda Accord measures some 14 cubic feet. The power of the 2006 Honda Accord is due to its 2.4 liter i-VTEC engine with four cylinders that can produce some 166 horsepower, as well as another 3.0 liter VTEC V6 engine that could generate a maximum of 244 horsepower. Both these engines are great on fuel efficiency. 

The 2006 Honda Accord has a huge range of color choices to choose from. The list comprise of carbon bronze pearl (black), carbon bronze pearl (ivory), desert mist metallic (ivory), graphite pearl (gray), nighthawk black pearl (ivory), Redondo red pearl (gray), royal blue pearl (gray), sapphire blue pearl (black), taffeta white (ivory), and alabaster silver metallic (black). 

Featured accessories for the 2006 Honda Accord include in its list a deck lid spoiler, a rear wing spoiler, wheel locks, 15 inch alloy wheels, a removable roof rack, a ski attachment, a snowboard attachment, a bike attachment, a car cover, a half nose mask, a full nose mask, door edge guards, a gold emblem kit, a gold exhaust finisher, a Fenderwell trim, door visors, fog lights, a moonroof visor, front and rear all-season floor mats, a cargo net, a trunk tray, a metal trim kit, a leather steering wheel cover, an outside temperature gauge, a leather shift knob, the XM® satellite radio, a six disc in-dash changer, a DVD-based i-VES, a cassette player, and an MP3 player among many others. 

Same Day Car Parts is where customers and owners can order genuine Honda accord parts and Honda accessories at wholesale prices. Same Day Car Parts supply every Honda parts available today. The store’s huge inventory and efficient delivery system allows for a quick and easy delivery.
</p>


