Title: 
2006 Passat Debuts as Newest Family Car

Word Count:
282

Summary:
Today, as gas prices are surpassing $3 per gallon, SUVs and minivans are not as practical to own.


Keywords:
2006 Passat Debuts as Newest Family Car


Article Body:
Today, as gas prices are surpassing $3 per gallon, SUVs and minivans are not as practical to own.

So what's a family to do?

Enter the 2006 Volkswagen Passat 3.6L, the midsize sedan that may forever change the attitude of owning a "grown-up" family car.

In its most powerful Passat to date, the 280-horsepower arrives soon to dealerships around the country. Although considered a family car, it does not sacrifice speed. The car continues to perform in the spirit of a true Autobahn-bred sedan by going from 0 to 60 mph in just 6.6 seconds, aided by its narrow-angle, six-cylinder engine.

Buyers may not only fall in love with the way this car handles, but with its price tag as well.

At a time when most cars can't leave a lot for less than $25,000, this all-new sedan starts at less than $23,000 with the standard 2.0T four-cylinder turbo engine.

As expected in a modern Volkswagen, the new Passat continues its pursuit to provide the most advanced technology available, while still offering uncompromising safety design and features.

The 2006 Passat includes eight airbags, front- and rear-side head protection, active front head restraints, adjustable headrests for all five occupants, and foot pedals that descend upon serious impact.

While its clean lines, sporty look and functional overall design are definite selling points, it's what's inside that counts.

Specifically, the new Passat 3.6L includes dual-zone automatic climate control, a standard eight-speaker sound system that is MP3-format compatible, premium sound with an in-dash six-disk CD changer, an optional DVD navigation system and several other features.

The new 2006 Passat is the sixth all-new generation of

Volkswagen's midsize car line that traces its roots back to the Dasher and Quantum of the 1970s and 1980s.


