Title: 
2006 Is the Last Year for the Isuzu Ascender

Word Count:
327

Summary:
The Isuzu Ascender is a vehicle that has been designed and produced to be a mid size sport utility vehicle. It has been designed and mounted on the 4WD GMT 360 platform which makes it very much related to the GMC Envoy, the Chevrolet Trailblazer, the Buick Rainier, the Oldsmobile Bravada, and the Saab 9-7 X.


Keywords:
auto parts,aftermarket parts,Isuzu Ascender,Isuzu parts,Isuzu Ascender parts


Article Body:
The Isuzu Ascender is a vehicle that has been produced and manufactured by General Motors. Production for this vehicle started back in the year 2003. However, sad news for those who would like to purchase or own one of these Isuzu Ascenders is that this year, 2006, would be the last year of its production. Come next year, 2007, there will be no more Isuzu Ascenders to be produced. 

In the line up of vehicles under General Motors’ Isuzu division, the Isuzu Ascender actually took the spot and niche that the Isuzu Trooper left vacant when the production for this vehicle, the Isuzu Trooper, was completely halted. As per the Isuzu Ascender, this vehicle has been designed and produced to be a mid size sport utility vehicle. It has been designed and mounted on the 4WD GMT 360 platform which makes it very much related to the GMC Envoy, the Chevrolet Trailblazer, the Buick Rainier, the Oldsmobile Bravada, and the Saab 9-7 X. The power for this vehicle comes from two engine choices. These engines comprise of the 4.2 liter Vortec I6 engine and the 5.3 liter Vortec V8 engine. Interested parties and customers can choose between the two engines which would serve as the power source for the vehicle. In the automobile market, the Isuzu Ascender has had and continually has a couple of competition vehicles. The list of these vehicles include the Toyota 4Runner, the Nissan Pathfinder, the Ford Explorer, the Jeep Grand Cherokee, the Chevrolet Tahoe, the Toyota Sequoia, the Chevrolet Trailblazer, the Ford Expedition, and the GMC Envoy. 

Upon its introduction back in 2003, the Isuzu Ascender came as a sport utility vehicle that could hold a maximum of seven passengers in its interior. However, the following year, another version of this vehicle was introduced to the automobile market and this time around the vehicle could only take in a maximum of five passengers inside. Both of these vehicles have been made available and continually produced up until this year only.


