Title: 
2006 Mazda6 Does The Zoom-Zoom

Word Count:
303

Summary:
Sedan, hatchback or station wagon, you can own a 2006 Mazda6 for these are the body styles that are offered for this vehicle model. This vehicle offers a splendid performance hidden behind its spicy and hot style and design. Comfort is also something that this vehicle offers for its cabin and its seats can be arranged.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda MX6 parts,Mazda parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
Sedan, hatchback or station wagon, you can own a 2006 Mazda6 for these are the body styles that are offered for this vehicle model. This vehicle offers a splendid performance hidden behind its spicy and hot style and design. Comfort is also something that this vehicle offers for its cabin and its seats can be arranged. A great amount of cargo could also be transported using the 2006 Mazda6 with its fifty eight cubic feet of space in the back as you fold down the rear seats. 

Manufactured by the automaker, Mazda, the Mazda6 has actually been existing as a production vehicle since 2003 and up until the present, it continually proves that it will stay and it will prevail despite changing lifestyles and changing needs of the market. It took the spot that was previously occupied by the Mazda 626 and the Mazd Capella in the Mazda line up of vehicles. This midsize vehicle has been made available as a sedan with four doors, a station wagon with four, and a hatchback that holds five doors. 

There are five engine choices for the Mazda6. The list includes a 1.8 liter MZR I4 engine, a 2.0 liter MZR I4, a 2.3 liter MZR I4, a 3.0 liter Duratec V6, and a 2.0 liter MZR-CD diesel engine. Considered as its competition are the Chevrolet Malibu, Honda Accord, Hyundai Sonata, Peugeot 407, Nissan Primera, Volkswagen Passat, and the Toyota Avensis. Ranging from $23,415 to $27,315, you can own one of these vehicles yourself. It has a mileage of 19 miles per gallon on streets and city roads, and 26 miles per gallon for highways. 

Generosity is a trait that the 2006 Mazda6 has. You can find features like air conditioning, power windows, a cruise control system, radio controls that are mounted on its steering wheel, full power mirrors, a tilt and telescoping steering wheel, as well as power door locks.


