Title: 
2006 Chevrolet Aveo: America’s Price Leader

Word Count:
444

Summary:
Chevy's Aveo is the lowest priced car sold in the USA today. Imported by GM, the Aveo offers first time buyers an opportunity to skip the used car lot and fork over their money for a new car.


Keywords:
Chevrolet parts, Chevy part, headers, BBK headers, DC Sports headers, Chevy Cobalt, Impala SS, Aveo


Article Body:
The only thing American about the compact Aveo automobile is it’s Chevrolet name. Built in Korea [or in China] by GM Daewoo, the Aveo is America’s price champion coming in at just under ten thousand dollars. That’s right; you can still purchase a new car in the USA for under ten thousand dollars excluding taxes, dealer prep, and destination charges. Let’s take a closer look at Chevy’s bargain basement people hauler.

Available as either a four door sedan or as a five door hatchback, the Chevrolet Aveo fills an important niche in the Chevy line up as an entry level econocar. Priced nearly five thousand dollars less than Chevy’s next most expensive model, the Cobalt, the Aveo allows for Chevrolet to contend for a piece of the youth market. The Aveo is expressly targeted to compete against similar models from Scion, Kia, Hyundai, and Toyota.

So, exactly what do consumers get for their money, particularly with a base model? For starters, the Aveo comes with tires, a steering wheel, bumpers, and safety glass. Seriously, standard equipment for the Aveo is a 1.6L I4 engine paired with a 5 speed manny tranny. Air conditioning will cost you extra, but the base equipment list does include an AM/FM radio, rear wiper, a cargo cover, and side impact air bags for the driver and front seat passenger. Option packages include better sound, air, an automatic transmission, and a host of other accessories.

With a 97 inch wheelbase and a curb weight of nearly 2350 pounds, the Aveo certainly is a contender in the lightweight category. Headroom of nearly 40 inches allows taller drivers easier access, but one can only wonder if anyone would find the Aveo all that comfortable to begin with based on the car’s size and the quality of the seating?

GM Daewoo [50.1% owned by General Motors] recently released a new version of the Aveo [called the Gentra in Korea] that currently is only available in Asia.  The new Gentra/Aveo incorporates a rounder exterior departing from the dated wedged shape of the current Aveo. No official word as of this writing if and when the new model will make its American debut.

While the Aveo is certain not to win many awards, it does provide for consumers possessing limited means an affordable mode of transportation. For Chevrolet, who was lacking a basic home grown  model, the Aveo brings in buyers who might have otherwise bypassed Chevy dealers and headed directly to Scion or Kia for their first car. Beyond that the Aveo is a truly forgettable car and first time buyers may want to consider a good used car instead.


