Title: 
2006 Acura RL: Offering Comfort

Word Count:
564

Summary:
The 2006 Acura RL provides a more power and fuel efficient engine that creates an innovative and distinct power for this vehicle. This kind of vehicle needs no less than superior Acura auto parts when the need arises.


Keywords:
auto parts,Acura parts,Acura rl,wheels


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Offering a 3.5 liter V6 engine with 24 valves is the 2006 Acura RL which is a luxury sedan. With this kind of engine installed in this vehicle, the 2006 Acura RL has the capacity to take up to 225 horsepower at 5200 rpm. The 2006 Acura RL has been made available in two trim levels which comprise of the sedan and the sedan with a navigation system. This vehicle also sports an interior that exudes that kind of luxury that only an Acura has the privilege of providing customers. Its interior also boasts seats with leather trimming, as well as a steering wheel wrapped with the same skin. All these add up to provide an easy kind of comfort making this vehicle something to consider greatly. The 2006 Acura RL could be very much compared to and compete with the Audi A6, the Jaguar S Type, and the Volvo S80. 

The 2006 Acura RL also has a seating capacity that provides support and comfort at the same time. This vehicle offers a maximum seating capacity of five people, without the cramped kind of space. The driver’s seat has an eight way power seat with a two-position memory system. This driver’s seat also could be adjustable with its lumbar support giving this kind of option. The front passenger seat on the other hand has a four-way power seat that could be adjusted as per its passenger’s preferences and liking. More features for seating includes heated front seats, a Burled camphor wood trim, and a rear seat center armrest that contains a dual beverage holder. The interior of the 2006 Acura RL could very much compete with the Lexus LS 430 and the Mercedes Benz E-Class for it exudes luxury in every way. With front seats that are firm enough for good support that would never give its passengers a hard time on their back side, this vehicle also adds in seat springs that have been specially designed with computers so as to assist in dampening vibration. 

This vehicle has been crafted and manufactured using high-tensile steel and aluminum materials, along with lightweight aluminum front and rear frames. This also has heated outside mirrors with driver recognition and an independent multi-link rear suspension. There are also LED backlit gauges so as to provide progressive illumination, and a flush junction between the side glass and B-pillars. The 2006 Acura RL also contains an electronically controlled, speed-sensing, variable power-assist rack and pinion steering, along with high quality aluminum-alloy wheels. Part of the whole system for this vehicle are four-wheel anti-lock braking system with Electronic Brake Distribution, Vehicle Stability Assist with traction control, and Xenon High-Intensity Discharge headlights with Active Front Lighting System. 

The 2006 Acura RL provides a more power and fuel efficient engine that creates an innovative and distinct power for this vehicle. It also provides assistance systems and a wide range of safety features for its passengers. This kind of vehicle needs no less than superior Acura auto parts when the need arises. And this is where Auto Parts Discount comes in. This online store boasts a vast array of well crafted Acura replacement parts, performance parts, and accessories. Customers can choose Acura parts from Auto Parts Discount’s online store at Auto Parts Discount. This collection of Acura auto parts has been made available twenty-four hours a day to serve Acura parts needs. 
</p>


