Title: 
2006 Pontiac Solstice Cruises Down The Road

Word Count:
297

Summary:
From the brand that produces cars that boast of exemplary performance, the 2006 Pontiac Solstice is indeed one of those vehicles that draw lots of attention. Indeed, as a sports car, this vehicle sure is nimble and also offers excellent handling. It also has finesse that most sports cars do not even know how to define.


Keywords:
auto parts,Pontiac,Pontiac parts,Pontiac Solstice,Pontiac accessories


Article Body:
From the brand that produces cars that boast of exemplary performance, the 2006 Pontiac Solstice is indeed one of those vehicles that draw lots of attention. Indeed, as a sports car, this vehicle sure is nimble and also offers excellent handling. It also has finesse that most sports cars do not even know how to define. And for sports car lovers, the 2006 Pontiac Solstice is one of the most affordable sports vehicles in the market. 

Produced by General Motors and marketed under the Pontiac brand, the Pontiac Solstice is new to the market. In fact, it has just been in production starting this year, 2006. It is a sports car that has been built in one body style which is the roadster with two doors. The FR Kappa platform was used in building this sports car and it also has been equipped with a 2.4 liter Ecotec I4 engine. Assisting in its performance is a five speed Aisin AR5 manual transmission system or a five speed 5L40-E automatic transmission. Designed by automobile stylist Wayne Cherry, the Pontiac Solstice is going to be considered as a competition by cars like the Nissan 350Z, Honda S2000, Mazda MX-5, as well as the Chrysler Crossfire. 

The 2006 Pontiac Solstice certainly looks like the classic sports cars from the 1950s which is coupled up with its own share of uniqueness that the overall effect leads to an original design that is a blend of the past and the future. This sports car also offers the best kind of comfort that most sports cars do not offer. Because of its long wheelbase, passengers do not have to be cramped and uncomfortable once inside the cabin. Packed with features for entertainment and for comfort, a ride inside the 2006 Pontiac Solstice is going to be very interesting.


