Title: 
2006 Acura CL: Traditional yet Modern

Word Count:
485

Summary:
The 2006 Acura CL has been redesigned and reengineered in almost every little detail possible. This new vehicle promises to deliver higher levels of performance, technological innovations, engineering achievements, passenger safety, and overall style.


Keywords:
auto parts,Acura CL accessories,brake rotors,steering wheel covers


Article Body:
Acura, as a brand, has been holding up its share in its commitment of crafting, introducing, and bringing to the market vehicles that are engineered so as to provide excellent performance. And once again, Acura has added another vehicle to this list and at the same reinforcing the brand’s commitment. Welcome the all-new 2006 Acura CL. 

The 2006 Acura CL has been redesigned and reengineered in almost every little detail possible. This new vehicle promises to deliver higher levels of performance, technological innovations, engineering achievements, passenger safety, and overall style. It has also been destined to compete with the existing BMW 328Ci, the Volvo C70, and the Mercedes Benz CLK320. This vehicle has been again designed so as to provide and exude the smooth and flowing lines of the classic coupes of the European Gran Turismo. However, this does not overbear the styling that is only from an Acura. Making the 2006 Acura CL a remarkable vehicle is that it has been able to combine the past, tradition, and heritage with modernity and technology. This vehicle surely possesses encompassing efficiency with its powerful engines, as well as revolutionary safety features and high technology vehicle management systems that are controls by computers. 

There are two engine options for the 2006 Acura CL. It is either the Acura 3.2 liter VTEC V6 engine with 24 valves, or the 3.2 power plant that has the capacity to create 225 horsepower. As per interior volume, this all-new vehicle sports 96.5 cubic feet of this, which is a 4.6 cubic feet increase from the previous vehicle. It also sports some 192.0 inches of length and 70.6 inches in its width. Safety features have been packed in this vehicle. The list includes standard front airbags, advanced side airbags with front passenger height and position sensors, and the standard anti-lock brakes as well as the Traction Control System. Offered as an option for the 2006 Acura CL is the Acura Navigation System. This system provides a satellite-linked nationwide coverage done through the use of a DVD (Digital Versatile Disc) database located on board. The vehicle also sports modifications like CompTech cold air intake, certified exhaust headers, CompTech high-flow exhaust system, Brembo brakes, sport suspension with Titanium front upper strut bar, 19-inch Maya DTM wheels, front and rear bumpers with side moldings, a deck lid tail spoiler, and custom aluminum exhaust tips. 

For more information about the Acura CL as well as to purchase Acura CL accessories and parts, customers can visit Auto Accessories Giant. The list includes steering wheel covers, alignment kits, shock absorbers, emblems, brake rotors, and a whole lot more. 

The 2006 Acura CL is one coupe that is really worth looking into. Although this vehicle has its share of downs like a confusing navigation system controls, and cramped head room as well as entry and exit for the rear seats, the 2006 Acura CL still shines amidst these with its quick acceleration, smooth steering as well as handling, and a perfect build quality.


