Title: 
2006 Daewoo Lanos: Totally Pleasurable

Word Count:
505

Summary:
There are some critics who find the Daewoo Lanos to be just a version of the Daewoo LeMans. And when they say this, they mean that it would be a no-frills type of transportation. The fun fact behind its name is that “Lanos” literally means “pleasure”.


Keywords:
auto parts,Daewoo,Daewoo Lanos,Daewoo parts,bumper,hubcaps


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
The 2006 Daewoo Lanos is a car filled with fun for it is great to drive and is very reliable as well. It comes either two doors or four doors. The fun fact behind its name is that “Lanos” literally means “pleasure”. 

This vehicle has been greatly compared to the Toyota Corolla for most people would mistake the Daewoo Lanos with the Toyota Corolla. However, if one would look more closely, the difference would be that the Daewoo Lanos has a vertical chrome Infinity-like grille. That is the main difference actually. The 2006 Daewoo Lanos holds a 1.6 liter engine with four cylinders that has the capability to produce some 105 units of horsepower. However, this engine is much noisier than other vehicles who own engines with four cylinders. 

There are some critics who find the Daewoo Lanos to be just a version of the Daewoo LeMans. And when they say this, they mean that it would be a no-frills type of transportation. However, Daewoo made it a point that the Daewoo Lanos would be a different vehicle from the Daewoo LeMans. The only similar characteristic or feature that the two vehicles have are the stiff seats with small side bolsters. The Daewoo Lanos is far more different than the LeMans in a lot of other ways. The former holds a much more attractive exterior with its thick body side moldings that offer good body and panel protection. The interior is very roomy as well. The rear seats provide sufficient and enough room for two adults. 

This new vehicle has a very spacious trunk to store a large amount of packages and cargo. To add up to the space, the rear seat backs could actually fold down flat. The passengers and the driver in the front are also given ample seating room. For people who like the colored variety, the cloth seats of the 2006 Daewoo Lanos would be up your alley for they are actually multicolored coming in blue, red, yellow, and white. 

The 2006 Daewoo Lanos uses a wheelbase measuring some 99 inches. The four-door Lanos is some 167 inches longer than the two-door version. This vehicle come with the standard features that include a power steering, dual air bags, a five speed manual transmission system, a four wheel independent suspension system, an AM/FM stereo with cassette, central locking doors, power windows, and power windows for the driver’s side as well as the passengers’ end. The optional features include a remote keyless entry system, a four speed automatic transmission system, a cruise control, air conditioning, and a power sunroof. 

Daewoo Lanos owners and aficionados who want to maintain the superior performance of their Daewoo vehicles could go to Auto Parts Online. Auto Parts Online is the leading supplier of BMW discount-priced finest quality Daewoo auto parts. For performance demands, this online store offers condensers, bumpers, coolant tanks, exhaust, fenders, hubcaps, and a whole lot more. A tremendous line of discount Daewoo parts is guaranteed at the online site to be the best of its kind.
</p>


