Title: 
2006 Dodge Viper: Endangering the Competition

Word Count:
484

Summary:
Entering the automobile world in 1992, the Dodge Viper has had undergone many changes as well as many obstacles. This year, 2006, the Dodge Viper is already on its third generation of vehicles.


Keywords:
auto parts,Dodge,Dodge Viper,Dodge parts,Dodge body parts,Dodge accessories


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Entering the automobile world in 1992, the Dodge Viper has had undergone many changes as well as many obstacles. This year, 2006, the Dodge Viper is already on its third generation of vehicles. This time around, the vehicle is introduced as an all-new coupe. 

Dan Knott, the director of Street and Racing Technology (SRT) for the Chrysler Group states, “Demand for a Dodge Viper Coupe started the day we introduced the Dodge Viper SRT10 Convertible for 2003. The all-new 2006 Dodge Viper SRT10 coupe is a natural evolution of the heritage of the Dodge Viper, and gives enthusiasts exactly that they’re looking for in the ultimate American sports car.” He also adds, “Dodge Viper SRT10 customers want to go beyond the level of the regular enthusiast, to the level of outrageous performance. Our all-new 2006 Dodge Viper SRT10 coupe gives our customers that performance in a stunning new package.” 

The most obvious change for this new vehicle is that it now holds the aerodynamic “double bubble” roof. This roof holds a unique shape that provides a smooth airflow over the vehicle as well as assists in accommodating a large amount of space inside. Other new things for this new 2006 Dodge Viper SRT10 Coupe include the door glass, the rear quarter panels, the integrated rear spoiler, and the wraparound tail lights. It is very much similar to the original Dodge Viper GTS coupe’s look but this new one owns up to a more contemporary flair. Also added in are a set of unique alloy wheels which measures 18 inches for the front end and some 19 inches on the back. 

The 2006 Dodge Viper SRT10 coupe holds an 8.3 liter all-aluminum motor that works with ten cylinders. This engine has the power to produce some 500 horsepower and around 525 pound feet of torque. To help it all up is a six speed manual transmission. 

Backing up Knott’s statement regarding this new vehicle, Trevor Creed, Chrysler Group’s senior vice president for design exclaims, “It was important for us to sustain the emotion in the design. We wanted the 2006 Dodge Viper SRT10 coupe design to include a nod to the original Viper GTS coupe, but in a contemporary way. The Dodge Viper SRT10 coupe owner is often a racer, and the car has to scream that, even when it’s idling at the stoplight. The bottom line is that the new Dodge Viper SRT10 coupe’s design says a lot about its unique character, and the car’s performance is the payoff.”

To continue Dodge’s tradition of offering unique and excellent in performance vehicles that is outstanding in its value and class, auto parts companies like Car Parts Rush offers top of the line Dodge parts. The customer has a choice from a vast array of auto parts and accessories. It offers new and used Dodge body parts, body kits, performance parts, and Dodge accessories among many others.
</p>


