Title: 
2006 Chevy Corvette: Promises of Amazement

Word Count:
616

Summary:
The 2006 Chevy Corvette has certainly made sure that it would live and outlive the gossip running about. This new car has certainly benefited from its advanced hydro forming frame-rail process that was first introduced to the Chevy C5.


Keywords:
auto parts,Chevy parts,body parts,Chevy Corvette


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
The 2006 Chevy Corvette comes as a well balanced package in a vehicle. It has set refinement in its interior and stance as well as exuding the modern sports car feel. For the past years, the Chevy Corvette has consequently received and bagged the Car of the Year award. Starting out as rumors, the 2006 Chevy Corvette has certainly made sure that it would live and outlive the gossip running about. General Motors has made a statement that the 2006 Chevy Corvette is quickest and fastest car that the company has ever produced. 

This vehicle comes with sophistication and is a high-performance machine. In many ways, the Chevy Corvette shows off its well-mannered and simply ride dynamics as well as an ultra-slick powertrain performance. Its interior is very much made from quality materials that provides a pleasant and comforting experience for those who would be riding in it. To increase down force, the Chevy Corvette will have a rear lip added to it and will also exhibit a more rounded trailing edge. 

This new car has certainly benefited from its advanced hydro forming frame-rail process that was first introduced to the Chevy C5. The adding in and mounting of Magne Ride shock absorbers has proven to be an advantage for it has provided the 2006 Chevy Corvette an active handling as well as an innovative ride system. This vehicle also bears the Chevy C6 powertrain as well as other technologies that are top in its class. The vehicle’s engine has the capacity and capability to make 500 horsepower at around 6,200 rpm. Optional is the 7.0 liter LS7 V8 engine that is hand built. 

This new vehicle would also sport several color schemes that would include white, red, and gold. As for the 2006 Chevy Corvette’s exterior, it will boast a more daring look that will reflect General Motor’s willingness to accept risks when it comes to style and design.  The 2006 Chevy Corvette will combine soft curves with machined edges. It will also show off its bold aesthetic design as well as its muscular form and shape from its chiseled front, muscular fenders and flares to its street dominating attitude. The vehicle will hold a full aluminum chassis, large brakes, carbon fiber front fenders and a magnesium engine cradle as well as a removable roof panel. 

As for the 2006 Chevy Corvette’s styling, the vehicle will show off great differences to its predecessors. The front end will receive a revised larger air inlet. Also added in would be a function hood scoop, new side vents, a rear lip spoiler and very unique wheels. The vehicle also lost its power passenger seat along with the electric seat bolsters. By eliminating these, the 2006 Chevy Corvette would be saving much on weight. However, what comes as standard are dual zone air conditioning, leather upholstery made in two tones, and a head up display system. Options for this vehicle include a Bose stereo, side impact airbags, a navigation system, and polished wheels. 

For the original and best car on the market, nothing is befitting than the excellently crafted Chevy Corvette parts and Chevy  parts at Car Parts Rush. This online store has in its stock the highest quality Chevy auto parts that will retain the Chevy’s driving dynamics coupled up with high technology and amazing design. Customers and visitors can simply browse at Car Parts Rush’s website and they can understand why customers and Chevy enthusiasts keep coming back to Car Parts Rush for their auto body parts. Aside from that, Car Parts Rush also takes care of a the task that it has given itself – providing loyalty to its customers along with providing excellent products and unequalled service.
</p>


