Title: 
2007 Lincoln MKX Is The New Kid on the Block

Word Count:
270

Summary:
This article tells the reader about the Lincoln MKX and what it offers to consumer car buyers.


Keywords:
luxury, luxury cars, exotic cars, luxury car rental, exotic car rental


Article Body:
The 2007 Lincoln MKX is viewed as a luxury crossover, meaning that it combines the luxury found in high-end sedans with the functionality of an SUV. The MKX is a break out car for Lincoln, as Ford is reaching out to appeal to younger buyers. With the MKX being favorably compared to the Acura MDX, the Lexus RX, the Cadillac SRX, the Mercedes-Benz M-Class, and the BMW X3, the Lincoln Aviator's replacement is carving out a very nice niche. The "new kid" has the power to back up its hype with a 3.5-liter Duratec 35 V6, 265 horsepower and a six-speed, transverse automatic transmission. The transmission, which is known as 6F, was co-developed by Ford and GM at an R&D cost over $1 billion. 

The MKX is available with all the bells and whistles, including heated-and-cooled front seats and cooled backseats; a rear-seats DVD entertainment system; a sunroof with powered shading; a DVD-based navigational system; a Soundmark THX II-certified audio system with 14 speakers; a Sirius satellite radio; an auxiliary MP3 outlet; a reverse-sensing system; adaptive front headlamps; and 18-inch, eight-spoke machined aluminum wheels. The vehicle has side-impact, seat-mounted airbags and side-impact airbag curtains, and a tire-pressure monitoring system. Additionally, there is a special-latch system for children's safety, front-seat airbags, and auto-adjusting seatbelts for safety. 

The 2007 Lincoln MKX comes in nine snazzy colors, with seven of the colors having a metallic edge. The price range of the MKX is approximately $35,000 to $45,000 per Lincoln's website. Of course, optional equipment and features are available. 

It is safe. It performs well. It is flashy. The '07 Lincoln MKX is not your daddy's Lincoln. But it could be yours.


