Title: 
2007 Dodge Caliber: A Lean and Mean Machine

Word Count:
465

Summary:
The new 2007 Dodge Caliber has been set so as to be the very first car from Chrysler to offer a continuously variable transmission or CVT. This new vehicle will also hold the new World Engine family that has gasoline engines with four cylinders. This vehicle sports five doors. It has a profile that is very much like a combination of a sports car and a coupe. Yet, it also has the strength, stance, and great functionality of a sports utility vehicle.


Keywords:
auto parts,Dodge,Dodge Caliber,Dodge parts,Dodge accessories,valance,bumpers,struts


Article Body:
The new 2007 Dodge Caliber has been set so as to be the very first car from Chrysler to offer a continuously variable transmission or CVT. This new vehicle will also hold the new World Engine family that has gasoline engines with four cylinders. Along with that, enter the 2007 Dodge Caliber with a new electronic all wheel drive system plus another new part – a 2.0 liter diesel engine. More power has been made to this vehicle, it seems. 

This new vehicle from the Dodge brand is targeting the market that holds the 20-somethings who are also first time new car buyers. Their statistics show that mostly these consumers are those who have a median income of around $45,000. Although, of course, anybody who wants a Dodge Caliber can buy a Dodge Caliber. 

This vehicle sports five doors. It has a profile that is very much like a combination of a sports car and a coupe. Yet, it also has the strength, stance, and great functionality of a sports utility vehicle. The 2007 Dodge Caliber has a very sheer surface treatment. This evokes attention and exudes just what a Dodge is – bold, powerful, capable, and very street smart. Unmistakably, the 2007 Dodge Caliber is totally a Dodge vehicle. 

Aside from the change and improvement in power, the 2007 Dodge Caliber also boasts of new styling designs that is very much has a crossover feel. The design is very much a Dodge’s and it is very much predicted that it will make soaring sales internationally. It sports innovative features for its owners and users. The change in power now gives its driver the chance to do more things unlike previously. 

The 2007 Dodge Caliber redefines the whole idea of an entry-level vehicle. It comes with high value as well as bold styling that is unmistakably a Dodge and a very flexible interior that is the delight of its passengers. This vehicle has been designed so as to target the fancy of people and consumers who are opting for a Dodge attitude as well as the capability and versatility that a sports car could only hold. However, despite these, the 2007 Dodge Caliber still retains the affordability and excellent fuel efficiency of an entry level vehicle. This vehicle gives its owners the flexibility to seat more friends and family as well as store in more packages and stuff in its rear storage area. 

George Murphy, the senior vice president in Global Marketing of Daimler Chrysler, states, “Dodge Caliber is not your typical small car. The all new 2007 Dodge Caliber redefines the compact car by combining crossover styling with space-efficient packaging, interior flexibility, innovative features, and affordable performance. Caliber allows owners around the globe to be active, do more, and stand out – to live life to the fullest, and do so at a very competitive price.”


