Title: 
2007 Mazda CX-7: Mazda’s Entry To The Crossover Segment

Word Count:
312

Summary:
For Mazda Motor Corporation, the 2007 Mazda CX-7 is the very first vehicle for the company. Destined for 2007, the Mazda CX-7 has been crafted as a midsize vehicle in the mentioned segment.


Keywords:
auto parts, Mazda parts, Mazda speed Protégé performance parts


Article Body:
For Mazda Motor Corporation, the 2007 Mazda CX-7 is the very first vehicle for the company. Well, the very first entry of the company to the crossover sport utility vehicle segment and category which is rapidly gaining fame and name in the auto world. It certainly would not be surprising if one day, we are hit by the fact that the crossover SUV segment has already become the most sought after segment in the automotive industry and the 2007 Mazda CX-7 would surely be blazing along. 

Destined for 2007, the Mazda CX-7 has been crafted as a midsize vehicle in the mentioned segment. Thinking about it, other entrants to the crossover SUV category like the Dodge Nitro, Mitsubishi Endeavor, Subaru B9 Tribeca, Hyundai Santa Fe, Nissan Pathfinder, and Toyota Highlander, should be on the lookout for this new one. It has also been built in one body style which is the wagon that holds four doors. In North America, the Mazda CX-7 actually took the place that used to belong to the Mazda MPV. Sure enough, auto parts dealers that offer Mazda speed Protégé performance parts are also making sure that their collection of parts would now include replacement parts for this blazing new Mazda vehicle. 

According to auto experts, when they first took a glance at the Mazda CX-7, they actually noticed that it looked more like a wagon rather than the SUV which it actually is. It is even stylish plus holds a lot in height. Under the hood of this breakthrough vehicle is an engine that could produce some 244 units of horsepower. And if you think that you can only take in your wife for a ride and would have to bring the kids next time, keep in mind that the Mazda CX-7 has the capacity to transport five passengers in its cabin plus a load of cargo in its back.


