Title: 
2007 Toyota Camry: A Hybrid For A Leader

Word Count:
428

Summary:
Toyota's Camry, America's best selling automobile, is slated for a complete overhaul in time for the 2007 model year. One of the biggest changes for the model will be the incorporation of optional hybrid engine technology, a first for the Camry.


Keywords:
Toyota accessories, Lund tonneau cover, K&N FIPK, Toyota parts, hybrid cars, Camry, Prius, Avalon


Article Body:
Toyota has a couple of big things in store for the Camry when the 2007 model year version of the car rolls out this coming summer: a complete redesign and the availability of a hybrid engine. Already the best selling car in America, the Camry is destined to be overhauled and re-engineered. Let’s take a look at some of the changes scheduled for Toyota’s venerable model.

<b>New Styling Cues</b> – Nobody has ever said that the Camry is a knock out when it comes to style. Despite its pedestrian look, the Camry has managed to capitalize on Toyota quality, price, and engineering to present a car that is clearly a best seller. Still, critics have routinely yawned at the Camry’s looks, but that will soon all change and dramtically at that. Borrowing some styling cues from Toyota’s Lexus line up of luxury cars, the 2007 Camry is expected to delight motorists and critics alike. Witness the recently made over Toyota Avalon: what was once a bland, full sized car has now been transformed into a sleek, luxurious sedan. 

<b>Time For A Hybrid</b> – Toyota is riding the hybrid crest and it will, therefore, introduce hybrid technology into the Camry line up. Like all other Camry models, the hybrid version will also be built in the US, making it the first Toyota hybrid to be built outside of Japan. However, the battery and inverter will be imported from Japan while the engine will be Kentucky built. The Camry will join the Prius and the Highlander as the third Toyota model to offer hybrid technology. 

<b>More Power</b> – Expected to be in the same size range as the current model, the Camry will keep its current four and six cylinder engines, but both will be reworked enough to crank out additional horsepower without compromising on fuel economy.

The Camry’s chief competitor over the past decade has been the Honda Accord. With a hybrid offering available and an improved appearance in place, the Camry is likely to strengthen its hold on the “top seller” category when the new model is released. 

No one knows for sure if the “hybrid phase” is simply a fad or something that will ultimately catch on. With government credits still available and high gas prices at the pump, Americans continue to look at hybrids as a viable alternative to thirsty internal combustion engines. Toyota, for its part, continues to capitalize on this trend and the Camry is the latest vehicle in Toyota’s expanding arsenal to successfully incorporate hybrid technology.


