Title: 
30 Years And Still Strong

Word Count:
301

Summary:
The Mazda 929, also sold as the Efini MS-9, is a full size luxury car. The model Mazda 929 was first introduced back in 1973. 

The vehicle was crafted in Japan; it was as big as a coupe, sedan, or station wagon. This line had a 1.8 liter incline four Mazda 1800 engine; the engine was capable of a whopping eighty three horse power output. Since its introduction the Mazda 929 has had five different engines between the years 1973 to 1981.

The second generation Mazda emerge...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The Mazda 929, also sold as the Efini MS-9, is a full size luxury car. The model Mazda 929 was first introduced back in 1973. 

The vehicle was crafted in Japan; it was as big as a coupe, sedan, or station wagon. This line had a 1.8 liter incline four Mazda 1800 engine; the engine was capable of a whopping eighty three horse power output. Since its introduction the Mazda 929 has had five different engines between the years 1973 to 1981.

The second generation Mazda emerged in 1981. It had been sold as a large front engine rear wheel drive sedan. It also used the new HB platform as a base which was also shared with the Mazda Cosmo. The new Mazda has seen three different engines in its life time. The third generation came about a few years later. 

This new version had a pillared four door sedan along with a larger hard top that has four doors and no pillars. The engine was even upgraded to a double overhead Cam that had twenty four valves. That would in turn increase its fuel economy, performance and reliability. 

The last generation of Mazda 929s still has the same luxury and is considered a premium sedan. It has been redesigned and has a more rounded flowing body. There are many add ons as well. For instance, they added five more horsepower to the engine. They have added dual air bags; a glass moon roof has replaced the metal unit. The premium package includes a wood console trim and rear armrest storage compartment. Leather upholstery has been added, even a remote keyless system and wood interior trim. This vehicle has been ranked the highest among its class. 

The Mazda 929 has changed quite a bit in these thirty years, but Mazda still gives us the safety and luxury that all customers want.


