Title: 
3M Clear Bra - What an invention!

Word Count:
439

Summary:
The 3m clear bra is a wonderful invention for any car-lover who treats his prized possession like a true friend. A man’s best friend is not always the family dog. Sometimes a car can take the place of a great pet and nothing hurts more than seeing that first scratch or dent on your favorite automobile.


Keywords:
3m clear bra


Article Body:
The 3m clear bra is a wonderful invention for any car-lover who treats his prized possession like a true friend. A man’s best friend is not always the family dog. Sometimes a car can take the place of a great pet and nothing hurts more than seeing that first scratch or dent on your favorite automobile.

However, traditional protective bras are not the most attractive option for car owners who want to protect their investments.

The problem with the traditional protective covering is simply due to the fact that it covers the magnificent machine. No real car enthusiast wants to hide his prized automobile under a rubbery surface. He doesn’t want to spend a lot of money on the perfect finish to cover it up with a protective layer. Unfortunately, many car owners had to choose between chips and scrapes or hiding the finish.

Not anymore. A car enthusiast can opt for a 3m clear bra that protects the car by creating a colorless barrier between the car’s finish and the elements. The 3m clear bra is simply a protective film that is literally painted over the car’s exterior. This product is commonly used on trucks, cars and vans of vehicle owners who cringe at the thought of a pebble getting near their priceless object.

The 3m clear bra is also used to protect headlights as well. The protective layer is commonly applied to the front of the vehicle and on the lenses of the headlights. The beauty of this material is that it is virtually undetectable. The original design of the vehicle is not changed in any way. The owner has the peace of mind that comes with knowing that the car is protected while having the luxury of enjoying his vehicle in its original state. 

Some may wonder if the product is really as effective as the traditional protective cover. The 3m clear bra will protect the vehicle from chipping. The material was originally designed to be used on aircraft propellers to protect them from chipping. Surely the material will be effective at preventing chipping on vehicles as well. 

Another concern is the quality of the clarity of the 3m clear bra. How clear is it, really? The manufacturer of the product boasts that the material is virtually undetectable unless the vehicle is very white in color. The clear coat is slightly visible on a stark white car when very close but it is not detectable from a distance. You will see a faint line where the 3m clear bra stops but that is better than an ugly bug shield or paint chips.


