Title: 
4 Ways To Increase Automotive Performance

Word Count:
368

Summary:
In these days of high gasoline prices, it may seem ridiculous to consider ways to increase your car's performance as they are almost always associated with increased fuel consumption. However, there are four ways to increase performance that do not have to negatively impact your gas mileage. Let's take a closer look at each one.


Keywords:
replacement air filters, reusable air filters, performance chips, cold air intake, cat-back exhaust


Article Body:
In these days of high gasoline prices, it may seem ridiculous to consider ways to increase your car's performance as they are almost always associated with increased fuel consumption. However, there are four ways to increase performance that do not have to negatively impact your gas mileage. Let's take a closer look at each one.

<b>1. Reusable Air Filters.</b> Landfills are stuffed with items we use once and then throw out. Auto air filters are one such item and through the life of a car you can go through 6-12 of them with no problem. For approximately three times the price, washable and reusable air filters are a great alternative. When you purchase one it likely will be the last air filter your car will ever need. Reusable air filters enable you to gain slight increases in horsepower and acceleration as well as to impact the environment in a positive way.

<b>2. Performance Chips.</b> All new cars are operated by a computer chip that tells how much torque and horsepower can be displaced. Performance chips or recalibrations of your current chip can produce significant increases in horsepower and torque for your vehicle.

<b>3. Performance Exhaust Systems.</b> Cat-back or "catalyst-back exhaust systems" are a great way to free up trapped torque and to unleash horsepower. Keeping all the important emissions parts in place, a  cat-back system incorporates large width exhaust pipes and low restriction performance mufflers into your car thereby lowering exhaust back pressure. A side benefit is the really awesome sound emitting from the exhaust system.

<b>4. Cold Air Intake.</b> A cold air intake is an <u>under the hood mod</u> that helps to reduce the temperature of the air entering the car for the sole purpose of increasing the power of the engine. Side benefits include enhancements to the appearance of the engine bay as this part can be attractive and colorful; the sound the unit makes is also appealing.

Costs for each of these performance enhancements can vary greatly. Shopping online with a trusted wholesaler is one of the best ways to find top quality parts at the lowest possible prices. By doing the work yourself, you can save a bundle and enjoy the fruits of your labor in no time.


