Title: 
50 Years of Power

Word Count:
518

Summary:
The 2005 Ford Thunderbird is a luxury convertible that has been available in three trims that ranges from the Deluxe package to the 50th anniversary package. This last Thunderbird convertible to be produced still contains the cool and evocative styling that its descendants have bore.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford car parts,Ford Thunderbird parts,headlights


Article Body:
A carryover from 2004, the 2005 Ford Thunderbird was the last of its kind to be manufactured. The last time it rolled off the Ford Motor Company’s manufacturing plants was also the time of the vehicle’s fiftieth anniversary. 

This 2005 Ford Thunderbird is a luxury convertible that has been available in three trims that ranges from the Deluxe package to the 50th anniversary package. It has the capacity to take in a maximum of two passengers, and sports two doors. Upon its introduction, this 2005 Ford Thunderbird model came equipped with a standard engine of 3.9 liters, V8, and 280 horsepower that could take in 18 mpg in the city, and 24 mpg on highway cruising. Also standard for this luxury convertible is a five-speed automatic transmission that has overdrive. 

This last Thunderbird convertible to be produced still contains the cool and evocative styling that its descendants have bore. It also still holds its heritage of being a roadster with perennial style, loads of power, and great interior roominess and space. However, convertibles who have lived for fifty years also received changes so much so that the 2005 Ford Thunderbird sports an open-air driving, new colors for its interior and exterior, and a new aluminum trim for its doors and center stack. 

As per the 2005 Ford Thunderbird’s interior, this vehicle comes with air conditioning with dual-zone automatic climate controls, a power tilt/telescope leather-wrapped steering wheel that has radio controls mounted on it, a cruise control, leather upholstery on 6-way power bucket seats, power mirrors, window locks, door locks, a remote keyless entry system, AM/FM/CD with an in-dash 6-disc changer, a power convertible top, a universal garage door opener, and automatic headlights. On the outside, this luxury convertible could be owned with a power-folding soft top with a heated rear window or with a removable hardtop with trademark porthole windows. 

As per safety and security, this luxury convertible has made sure that these features are not overlooked. The vehicle has front airbags, side airbags, and a combination of head-and-chest side airbags, thus making the 2005 Ford Thunderbird the first convertible manufactured by Ford to come equipped with this. Aside from that, the vehicle also has an anti-theft system, the Ford’s Smart Locks system, the LATCH child seat system, a perimeter alarm that goes along with an LED indicator, and a glow-in-the-dark emergency trunk release handle. 

All of Ford Thunderbird’s parts and Ford car parts needs could be easily located at Auto Parts Discount. Top of the line Ford Thunderbird parts and Ford auto parts could found here that are guaranteed to fit Ford vehicles. They also match the quality and performance of Ford vehicles. 

In a nutshell, the 2005 Ford Thunderbird comes with new exterior colors that include bronze and medium steel blue that has replaced merlot, vintage mint green, and light ice blue metallic. Aside from that it also sports new partial interior color packages like medium steel blue and torch red. The convertible also has a new style using aluminum trim on its doors and center stack. And lastly, the 2005 Ford Thunderbird contains seatback map pockets for owner’s use.


