Title: 
6 Must Have Auto Accessories

Word Count:
500

Summary:
Buying a new car is a thrill: the feel, the new car smell, the pristine ride, the lack of floor mats... Yes, odd as it seems, your new car probably left the showroom without several key accessories. Don't let the dealer add them in after the fact, otherwise you will pay a mint for the favor.


Keywords:
discount car parts stuff, floor mats, cargo liners, bug shields, bug deflectors, car bras, wheels


Article Body:
Buying a new car is an experience that few will ever forget: the smell, the pristine interior, and the flawless ride are some of the things enjoyed by new car owners. Yet, despite how well equipped even the most expensive cars can be, oftentimes they leave the showroom with several accessories missing. No, they weren’t stolen; instead, for some queer reason these “must have” accessories were not included with the sale. Let’s take a look at six accessories every vehicle should have.

Floor mats – You have got to be kidding…no floor mats?! Oddly, floor mats are the chief accessory typically not included with any sale. Instead, you get a throwaway paper sheet for the driver.  Without floor mats in place you can bet that the interior will be soiled in short order. Worse, if you wait too long your carpeting could be damaged which is especially bad news for you if you lease your vehicle. Just wait ‘til you see the price of replacing damaged automotive carpeting!

Cargo liners – Like the interior, the car’s trunk area is subject to dirt, debris, mud, the elements, and more. Some automakers have wised up over the years and included cargo liners as standard equipment while others make a cargo liner an expensive add-on, after-the-sale accessory for buyers.

Bug shields – If you live in a humid climate, a bug shield is a must. No automaker offers one as standard equipment; if you want to protect your hood and windshield a bug shield is a must. Also marketed as bug deflectors.

Car bra – Sure, they are stylish, but a car bra is much more than that. Offering protection to your grille and to the front part of your hood, a car bra can help deflect debris kicked up from the road. Who hasn’t come across that sort of problem while traversing our interstates?

Brake dust shields – No, there isn’t a safety aspect with a dust shield, but there certainly are aesthetic reasons why they make sense. You spent a lot for your tires and wheels, so why go through the hassle of a weekly cleaning just to keep your car looking great? Dust shields limit the dust so that you can do what you really want to do: drive.

Car cover – Whether you keep your car garaged or whether you leave it outside, a car cover is essential toward protecting your vehicle’s finish. Indoor air pollution and dust can damage a garaged vehicle; solar rays, moisture, bird poop, wind, and small impacts can damage exposed vehicles. For less than $200 you can buy a four layer, breathable car cover that will offer the protection your car so desperately needs. 

So, there you have it. Six essential auto accessories for every vehicle. You’ll pay a mint for each accessory if you let your dealer add them in after the sale, so why not shop online with Car Stuff to find everything you need for your car and for less?


