Title: 
7 Reasons To Buy A Hybrid Car

Word Count:
639

Summary:
This article details the rising popularity of hybrid cars, explains why these cars are so appealing, and list 7 reasons why someone might consider making a hybrid auto their next car purchase.


Keywords:
hybrid cars, autos, 


Article Body:
You’re probably hearing a lot about hybrid cars these days. They are definitely being discussed everywhere. Hardly a day goes by that a major newspaper or television network isn’t doing a feature story on hybrids. And everyday it seems like one car manufacturer or another is introducing a new hybrid vehicle. 

So what’s all the buzz about?

Well, hybrids are a new type of vehicle that runs on electricity (from a battery) and gasoline. Now, that’s a novel idea isn’t it? 

Hybrids are picking up steam (sounds like a pun doesn’t it?) everywhere, including the world’s most a car lovin’ city – Los Angeles – where many of the top stars are hybrid owners.

In the “City of the Angels” you’ll see environmentally forward thinking celebrities, like Bill Maher, Alec Baldwin, Harrison Ford and “Seinfeld” co-creator and “Curb Your Enthusiasm” creator and star, Larry David behind the wheel of their hybrids. 

You might also see the lovely Cameron Diaz cruisin’ the Hollywood Hills in her hybrid. And when Leonardo Di Caprio really wants to feel like “the king of the world,” guess what he’ll be driving? You did guess a hybrid, didn’t you?

What do the stars know that you don’t? 

Well they know that driving a hybrid makes a lot of sense (and may save some cents too! :-) )

Want to know more about hybrids? Good. Now here are 7 reasons to buy a hybrid car.

1. The smaller hybrid compacts and sedans save considerable amounts of fuel compared to cars powered by gas turbine engines. If you’re interested in saving dollars on gas, this could be your solution.

2. The larger hybrid cars are not concerned with fuel efficiency. These cars are purchased because their owners want to boost power and performance. If you’re looking to get higher performance, consider a hybrid.

3. Hybrids can save you money in a multitude of ways. While the typical hybrid is about $3000 more than a typical car, this cost differential will narrow as auto manufacturers produce more hybrid cars in the future. The hybrid savings come in the form of state and federal incentives, reduced maintenance costs, and of course, lower fuel costs. 

4. Your hybrid will even be financially advantageous to you when you decide it’s time to sell it. The resale value of hybrid cars is exceptional. Unlike most cars, hybrids hold their value at an astonishing level.

5. If you care about the planet and you’re concerned with the kind of environment you leave for future generations, driving a hybrid car is an important environmental statement. Hybrids generate less pollution than their standard counterparts.

6. Driving a hybrid saves gas. That’s a positive for our economy. The less we, as a society, spend on gas means we have more money to spend on other essentials and luxury products. We could even save the money we would have spent on gas and use it for our savings or investment plans.

7. Driving a hybrid could help America fight the war in Iraq. Here’s why. In addition to funding U.S. soldiers and the Iraqi efforts to create a democracy, many experts contend the U.S. is actually funding both sides of the Iraqi war. They believe Middle Eastern oil interests’ are using part of their profits to fund the insurgency. So, in effect, our excessive oil consumption makes it more difficult to bring peace to Iraq. Bottom line: the less we spend on gas and oil means less financial resources for our enemies overseas. 

For all of these reasons, hybrid cars are “the next big thing in the automotive world.” So when it comes time for your next auto purchase, do yourself a favor and check out some hybrids cars. You might find that a hybrid is the perfect car for you.


