Title: 
‘Tune yourself’ with the best performance software

Word Count:
589

Summary:
Are you one of those passionate drivers, looking to extract maximum power from their engines without having to sacrifice the simplicity, safety and comfort that come with owning a European car? You now have but one choice – getting a big turbo software!


Keywords:
Uk cars,unitronic,unitronics,uno turbo tuning,engineering,programming,software,horsepower,dyno service,Audi,turbo,VW,performance,BMW,waterfest,Renault


Article Body:
Are you one of those passionate drivers, looking to extract maximum power from their engines without having to sacrifice the simplicity, safety and comfort that come with owning a European car? You now have but one choice – getting a big turbo software! 

There are many available now on the market! The unitronic turbo software comes in a number of hardware configurations for most Volkswagen, Audi, Porsche and Volvo applications. There are also programs for all setups: from street/track monsters to quarter mile beasts. For certain setups that are not yet available, you can choose the dyno tuned custom software, tailored to your needs. There are many factors that determine how any software will react to your specific setup. This <a href="http://www.unitronic.ca/">turbo software</a> I’m telling you about is developed in house along with a network of enthusiasts constantly testing and data-logging to ensure the best drivability. In certain cases, there will be free software updates released, providing the best in drivability and performance.

The benefit of this special software over standalone engine management is that all the original manufacturers’ safety limits and functions are retained. By properly modifying the parameters which manage the engines power delivery and output, the original startup and driving characteristics will be maintained in all climates. 

The performance software version introduces to you the smoothest and most reliable power gains available for your vehicle. All programs are precisely tuned for all driving conditions to bring you the most reliability. Professionals know that dynamometer test results are an over simplifications. They only tell part of the story since the engine is tested only at full throttle. You don't drive all day with your foot to the floor. That’s why you need a performance software, one that will maximize the power and torque you need in everyday driving conditions, where (we drivers know!) running smooth and brisk acceleration are equally as important. The unitronic performance software comes with an unconditional 30 day money back guarantee. The 30 day grace period will ensure that your expectations are met. If for any reason you are not satisfied, you may return it to your place of purchase for a full refund. Unitronics is all about your driving satisfaction. A risk-free satisfaction guarantee gives you total peace of mind. 

And if you didn’t know, last year, in April, UNISetting was released. This useful application, developed by unitronic for the Bosch Motronic Me7 system, allows the user to manipulate and adjust the built-in ECM adaptation channels to enhance the enthusiast's particular setup - from stock to modified, oct specific tweaks and adjusting for larger Injectors to better suit performance and drivability. The application is, in fact, a USB based interface (the first of its kind!) to work with any <a href="http://www.unitronic.ca/uni/content/view/104/35/">Generic FTDI USB</a> Communication interface. This device actually enables you to use your USB VAG-COM Cable Ver.A, B or C to make minor tweaks to your ECM! Be careful! If you need a VAG-Com Cable to use this amazing tool, be sure to get the Genuine Ross-Tech Vag-com Cable.

So, if the answer to my introductive question is yes, stop thinking and order your software today! Get and feel the power you always wanted! You will be amazed! There is no doubt that the products of one of today's leading innovative <a href="http://www.unitronic.ca/uni/content/view/41/32/">OEM ECM tuners</a> are specially designed to offer you the best in performance and quality!


