Title: 
A Peep At The 2007 Nissan Quest

Word Count:
273

Summary:
Manufactured by Nissan, the 2007 Nissan Quest is another vehicle to look forward to. Since 1993, this vehicle has been in production. It actually replaced the Nissan Axxess. It has been designed and produced in one body style only which is a minivan.


Keywords:
auto parts,Nissan,Nissan parts,Nissan accessories


Article Body:
Manufactured by Nissan, the 2007 Nissan Quest is another vehicle to look forward to. Since 1993, this vehicle has been in production. It actually replaced the Nissan Axxess. It has been designed and produced in one body style only which is a minivan. The choices only vary for customers could choose between a minivan with three doors or four doors. 

The 2007 Nissan Quest is very much related to the Mercury Villager, Nissan Altima, Nissan Maxima, Nissan Murano, and Nissan Teana because it has built on the same platform as them. Now, in the automobile market, the 2007 Nissan Quest is a competitor for the Toyota Sienna, the Mazda Mazda5, the Honda Odyssey, and the Hyundai Entourage. 

The 2007 Nissan Quest has already been on sale since May 19th this year all around the United States. And this time, this minivan has been redesigned. For this new style, the Manufacturer’s Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) has increased around one per cent compared to its previous MSRP. And this increase is weighted between all the trim levels available. This increase is due to the major transformation that the minivan has gone through which includes a redesigned interior, a refined exterior, and some new features and packages. 

Updates for the 2007 Nissan Quest are quite a combination. This minivan that could hold seven passengers inside its cabin offer a new instrument panel layout that has a redesigned center stack, an available front row center console, a new 3rd row fold-flat seat design with integrated auto-folding headrests and spring-assist for easy operations, an available MP3 player audio input, an available RearView Monitor as well as an available Bluetooth Hands Free Phone System.


