Title: 
A Walk Through the Volvo V40

Word Count:
461

Summary:
The Volvo V40 is a sedan that has been making heads turn. It has been crafted and manufactured since 1999 up until the present. When it was introduced, it actually filled in the spot and niche that the Volvo 450 had left.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo accessories,Volvo v40,Volvo parts,brakes,electrical parts,transmission parts


Article Body:
From the Ford Motor Company’s Volvo division, the Volvo V40 is a sedan that has been making heads turn. It has been crafted and manufactured since 1999 up until the present. When it was introduced, it actually filled in the spot and niche that the Volvo 450 had left. It is a compact car, holds four doors, and is a sedan. It has been said that its competition in the market include the Acura TSX, the Audi A3, the BMW 2-series, and the Infiniti G20. By looking at the history of the Volvo V40, one could say that indeed there have been two different models, or generations, under the same name. The first generation was launched in 1995, while the other one was just launched recently, in the year 2004. 

If you are interested in acquiring a Volvo V40 as your own and you do have $25,700, you most possibly can own one. For sure, this vehicle is guaranteed to be a safe wagon, after all, it is a Volvo, and Volvos are known for providing more than enough safety to its passengers. It has the Whiplash Protection Seating System (WHIPS), the Side Impact Protection System (SIPS), and the Inflatable Curtains (IC) all made standard for the Volvo V40. 

Aside from providing safety, the vehicle also provides a good performance, delivery, as well as functionality. It offers a twin scroll turbo charger with intercooler, and also an adaptive five speed microprocessor controlled automatic transmission. All these are made standard. The rear seats of the vehicle are split 70/30. They can even fold flat on the floor so as to provide extra space and extra storage for cargo. That way, the Volvo V40 gives its owners and its users the chance to stack in cargo in the 68.1 cubic feet of cargo space that it holds. The power of this vehicle comes from a dynamic turbocharged engine that holds four cylinders. This power machine could produce some 170 units of horsepower at 5500 rpm. And yes, for entertainment, it has a full concert hall sound with special thanks to the seven speaker stereo system found inside the Volvo V40. 

For all technological wonders, safety features, and mechanical prowess that the Volvo vehicles have, Volvo Parts and Used Volvo Parts offers the most impressive line up of Volvo performance parts, replacement parts, OEM parts, and Volvo accessories. Their online collection of quality and durable Volvo parts like V40 parts, include air intake system parts, brakes, cooling system parts, electrical parts, electrical engine parts, mechanical engine parts, fuel injection parts, fuel system parts, service tools and transmission parts among many others. These are guaranteed to be the best in the industry. These heavy duty and highly reliable Volvo parts are available at Volvo Parts and Used Volvo Parts’ online collection and inventory.


