Title: 
Accessories that Protect your Vehicle

Word Count:
1057

Summary:
This article describes some car accessories and how they can help protect the car and in a way keep the car looking at its best. Also use of accessories would be insuring retention of the vehicle’s top value.


Keywords:
Cars, Vehicles, Bug Shields, Car Cover, Floor Mats, Seat Cover


Article Body:
There are many accessories you can purchase to protect your vehicle.  Those mentioned here are just some of the most often chosen.  Whether you are looking to protect the interior or exterior, measures taken to keep your vehicle looking its best and at the same time insuring retention of the vehicle’s top value will be highly beneficial when it comes time to trade it in or sell. Even if you are not looking at future values for sale, using accessories like new seat covers, floor mats or a car bra will make you proud to be seen in your vehicle as well as the protection these accessories will provide.

The front-end car bra is an accessory that will provide protection for your vehicle’s front end. Specially ordered for your vehicle, the car bra is made to fit snugly and perfectly for maximum protection.  Its value is in its ability to act as a guard from road hazards such as bugs, chemicals such as tar and gravel on roadways and from pitting damage on your automobile’s grill and paint surfaces. The bra, while having an important protective feature, also gives your vehicle a classier appearance. Usually constructed of heavy vinyl and a firm padding underneath, the car bra will stand the test of time. Most vehicle bras are easy to install and remove. The benefits in adding value, protection and a sleek look to your vehicle are well worth the small investment of a car front-end bra.

Bug shields are yet another valuable protective piece you can add to your vehicle. Modern bug shields are designed aerodynamically to not only compliment the look of your car’s front end, but they also maximize fuel usage. By not allowing a pushing type of air force against the vehicle, aerodynamically made shields create an ease in air flow so that your car doesn’t have to use extra fuel to compensate for the additional pressure or work. Bug shields are great for protecting your car from road debris, excessive bug collection and chipping from stones or other road hazards.

A car cover is an essential accessory if you must leave your vehicle outside in the harsh elements of the sun, rain or snow. It will protect your car from wear and tear and the hazards of extreme weather conditions when garaging or cover protection is not available.  It should fit snugly around the normally exposed portions of the vehicle. Car covers are usually made of heavy duty protecting materials that will keep the damaging weather elements away from the automobile’s painted surfaces and will protect from the above mentioned weather hazards. Car covers are especially valuable if you use them while shopping or when the vehicle is parked anywhere someone or something can bump into the vehicle and create paint or body damage.

Floor Mats are the perfect accessory to not only give your interior a new or more finished look, they are indispensable in the protection they provide against wear and tear on the floor carpet.  You can purchase floor mats in most any variety of colors, styles, and designs. They are available in materials such as rubber and clear plastic to name a few. Floor mats can be made specific to your vehicle or purchased at auto parts stores. The benefits to having floor mats cannot be overstated.  They can aid in comfort when driving on long road trips, they protect from shoe damage in the acceleration area of the floor and they keep everyday dirt and grime from attaching to your vehicle’s original carpet.  A purchase of floor mats at nominal prices can give your vehicle protection from years of floor or carpet damage in the vehicle.

No matter what part of the world you live in, tinting your vehicle’s windows can offer protection in many ways. Window tinting has long been known to reduce the heat coming into your vehicle.  Anyone that owns an automobile in the southwest will tell you that the sun’s heat (and damaging ultraviolet rays) is not only destructive, it is downright uncomfortable.  So in these two ways, tinting can increase your comfort while driving and decrease fading or discoloration of the interior’s vinyl or fabric work. If you choose a safety film, you will get even more protection.

A safety film on your vehicle’s windows has been known to reduce injuries to occupants from flying shattered glass in auto accidents. If you have a large object hit your windshield, safety film may deter the object from coming directly into your vehicle and hitting any passengers.  If you live in tornado or earthquake zones, this type of film can prevent injury as well by acting as a buffer between you and the shattered glass.

Lastly, but certainly not less important, seat covers have numerous benefits. Seat covers protect the material that covers the original fabric of your car’s seats.  This is very important for owners that live in sun drenched areas of the world, work in conditions where your clothing is contaminated with dirt, grease, or other destructive materials and for those owners that participate in activities such as biking, hiking, or swimming (the chlorine alone is severely damaging if you are not fully dried off).  Seat covers are not just about protecting, they can also provide a tailored and clean look to your vehicle’s interior.

Your vehicle will look well kept and well taken care of if you purchase seat covers before damage occurs.  You can pull them off before selling or trading in your vehicle for that eye-appealing look that says you the owner took very good care of the car. Sometimes a nice and fresh looking interior will sell a vehicle even if the exterior is a bit worn.

While there are many other accessories out there for your vehicle, the ones mentioned here will go a long way in giving you peace of mind.  You will know that you have done what you can to insure that your vehicle will look close to new even when it is ten years old.  If you want to sell your vehicle someday, you have applied accessories that will most likely bring you maximum dollar at selling or trade-in time.  You can never lose by adding protective accessories to you car.


