Title: 
Accidents? What Do You Do?

Word Count:
348

Summary:
Accidents could happen anytime. In fact, even if you are the careful driver or even if you are the reckless driver, you could actually meet accidents on the road. In the trunk, there should also be cones, warning triangles and emergency flares.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jeep,Jeep parts,Jeep accessories


Article Body:
Accidents could happen anytime. In fact, even if you are the careful driver or even if you are the reckless driver, you could actually meet accidents on the road. Sometimes, it even happens right on your street just as you are pulling away from your garage. 

What do you do when you get involved and be part of a traffic accident? 

According to the Consumer Protection Association of America, they are continually developing a list of suggestions to help drivers anticipate what they actually need to know when they have to deal with a traffic accident. This organization is also continuously increasing public awareness on traffic safety. The president of the association, Dr. Ray Bruce, state, “These tips (on dealing with accidents) can make a big difference in everything from protecting yourself and your passengers to ensuring that you won’t be without a car while yours is in the shop.” 

Always have an emergency kit in your glove compartment. This should include a cellular phone, a pen, a paper, and a disposable camera. These would be to take important information about the scene. There should also be a card carrying information about your medical allergies or conditions that may require special attention. In the trunk, there should also be cones, warning triangles and emergency flares. 

If you are involved in minor accidents and there are no serious injuries, move your cars to the side. Do not stay on the road and bother oncoming traffic. If you do such a thing, chances are that there might be more traffic accidents headed your way because of your vehicles obstructing the road. On the other hand, if the car cannot be moved, make sure that you warn other motorists by setting out your hazard lights, cones, flares, or warning triangles. 

Exchange information with the other parties involved. Exchange names, addresses, phone numbers, insurance companies, policy numbers, drivers license numbers, and license plate numbers. Also, take down the description of each car, the year, make, model, and color. The location of the collision and how it happened should also be recorded.


