Title: 
Adjusting The Headlights Of Your Car

Word Count:
304

Summary:
Headlights help you out see the road ahead clearly by lighting up and illuminating the way. If you think that by simply putting on your headlights on your car, it would be able to light your way up to your destination. Well, think again. These headlights should be properly installed at the right angles.


Keywords:
auto parts,headlights,headlamps


Article Body:
Those huge eyes shining in the dark. 

Those are simply the headlights of your car. It is actually a lamp. And just by the name itself, it is located in the head or the front end of your vehicle. Of course, these have been mounted there not just for aesthetic purposes but also for functional purposes. These headlights help you out see the road ahead clearly by lighting up and illuminating the way. In fact, headlights are very essential during driving at night or even when driving during bad weather conditions like heavy rain or foggy days. 

If you think that by simply putting on your headlights on your car, it would be able to light your way up to your destination. Well, think again. These headlights should be properly installed at the right angles. Or else, you might be driving with the headlights lighting the sides only of the road when they should be lighting up the road ahead. You can do the adjusting yourself through the screws you can find on the assembly for the headlights. It is just one screwdriver that you‘ll need to take on such a task. 

To check if you do need to adjust your car’s headlights, park your car first somewhere where the ground is flat. Make sure that the front of your car is facing a flat surface – a wall, a fence, or a garage door, perhaps. And then, turn the headlights on. You would know that they are correctly mounted if they are straightly even. 

If you find that they do need a little tinkering and adjusting, you can lower or raise the beams by loosening or tightening the adjustment screws of the headlights with your screwdriver. The adjustment screws can be found usually on the side and the bottom of the headlights.


