Title: 
Advice On Dealing With A Defective Car Seat And Getting Help

Word Count:
575

Summary:
The automobile market can be intimidating, and if you are just starting out in the wonderful world of wheels you may need advice on buying your first car. There are so many options for car buyers: new or used, red or blue, sports car or SUV, two or four doors…and that is just for starters! Also, as a new car buyer you need to be wary of advice on buying your first car, because there are still quite a few snake-oil salesmen out there in the automotive market looking to sell yo...


Keywords:
lemon law,defective car seat,vin number,state statutes


Article Body:
The automobile market can be intimidating, and if you are just starting out in the wonderful world of wheels you may need advice on buying your first car. There are so many options for car buyers: new or used, red or blue, sports car or SUV, two or four doors…and that is just for starters! Also, as a new car buyer you need to be wary of advice on buying your first car, because there are still quite a few snake-oil salesmen out there in the automotive market looking to sell you a lemon. Following you will find some solid advice on buying your first car.

The first consideration for anyone who wants to buy his or her first car is usually whether to buy new or used. Many first car buyers are young people who are just starting out, so the necessity of buying used is often present. Advice on buying your first car new from a showroom is fairly straightforward: buy from a reputable dealer, research the best type of vehicle for you, and seek out the best deals including free extras, low interest and rebates. However, if you plan to buy a used vehicle, where should you look to avoid getting taken advantage of? Most car dealerships also sell “gently used” cars, usually those that have been previously leased. When these are out of your price range, there are also many used car lots with lower-priced second-hand vehicles. Look for a car dealer who is willing to do all the necessary repair work to get your first car in top running condition, and who also has all the necessary certifications to be in business. Ask whether you can talk to other people who have bought cars from the dealer and find out if they have had major problems with the vehicle. Always test-drive a car before you buy!

When it comes to the car itself, there are a number of things you should check out on your first car. You can examine the tires, the body and the interior on sight and look for possible problems. When considering the tires, be alert for rips and gouges and demand replacements for poor tires or ask for a lower purchase price. Also, uneven wear on tires indicates an alignment or suspension problem, in which case you should tell the dealer to perform the repairs before you will consider buying. On the body of the car, a few dents and scratches won’t affect the performance - but several of them could indicate the car has been in an accident. Also, rust along the bottom of doors or on the frame can attack the structure of the vehicle. Excessive rust is a bad sign. Check the interior of the car thoroughly for missing mirrors, frayed seatbelts, loose knobs and switches that don’t work. Test the audio system as well. Any of these points can be used as a bargaining tool to lower the asking price!

With any used vehicle, you should always obtain a used car report such as those from CARFAX. This information will tell you whether there are any outstanding liens, holds, or fines associated with the vehicle, and whether it’s been involved in an accident. 

What is the best advice on buying your first car? Take your time, and have fun. With some careful research and a bit of the right knowledge, you can soon say, “This is my car!”


