Title: 
Africa Meets Volvo S40 2.0

Word Count:
317

Summary:
The African automobile market has just met the newest Volvo entry level model – the Volvo S40 2.0. According to Volvo Cars, this new vehicle has been created just right so as to pique the interests of the young ones in the market.


Keywords:
auto parts,Vovo,Volvo V90 parts,Volvo parts,Volvo accessories


Article Body:
The African automobile market has just met the newest Volvo entry level model – the Volvo S40 2.0. According to Volvo Cars, this new vehicle has been created just right so as to pique the interests of the young ones in the market who are out searching for the right kind of vehicle that they could own. 

Priced at only R215,000 in the continent of Africa, it sure would be a good buy for most young buyers. And this price has actually gotten the Volvo S40 2.0 model quite a huge amount of recognition from the South African Guild of Motoring Journalists last year, 2005. And the value for money proved to be a huge factor for the organization that it gave the Car of the Year award for that year to the Volvo S40 2.0. 

The Volvo newest model to hit the African auto market has subjected to changes so as to make it more interesting for the market. Although it does not come ready with a package of Volvo V90 parts that would also be great replacements for the parts of this vehicle, the features for this vehicle are quite remarkable. The Volvo S40 2.0 offers standard equipment like a rain sensor, fog lights, an electronic climate control system, and a trip computer. Those who need entertainment while traveling would surely enjoy the standard Performance sound system. One can also find the steering wheel dotted with control buttons for various functions. The rear view mirror which has an auto-dim feature has now been created to be much wider. 

And with Volvo being known much for its vehicles that are very much inclined towards providing the right kind and the right amount of safety for its passengers and owners, the Volvo S40 2.0 holds the Whiplash Protection System, or WHIPS. It also offers some full-length curtain airbags which have been specially designed so as to protect the car’s passengers during side impacts.


