Title: 
Air Deflectors: Practical and Pleasing

Word Count:
434

Summary:
The addition of a particular car part to our vehicle is usually designed to improve its performance, but much as we might try to deny it, appearances matter, and we also want our car to look good.


Keywords:
NOT available to public


Article Body:
The addition of a particular car part to our vehicle is usually designed to improve its performance, but much as we might try to deny it, appearances matter, and we also want our car to look good. For this reason, many car parts are designed with attractiveness in mind as much as functionality, and sometimes, just sometimes, we can lose the run of ourselves entirely and opt for appearance-enhancing car parts just for the heck of it. Fortunately, car part manufacturers have cottoned on to our love of display, and designed a range of car parts and accessories than combine functionality with looking good. A great example of this trend is development of the air or wind deflector. 

Originally designed with a practical purpose in mind, car air deflectors have stepped up a notch and now look as good – if not better – than they work practically. With a distinctive look, air deflectors are increasingly added to vehicles to alter their appearance, by adding a sense of flair and style. But with a genuinely practical raison d’etre, an air deflector is the fancy car accessory that does as good as it looks. 

An air, or wind, deflector’s job is as simple as it sounds. Fitted at various points on your vehicle, including the hood or roof, this simple device redirects the flow of air so that it travels away from the vehicle itself. This prevents the wind that attacks you as you drive at high speeds from damaging your windshield, and helps stop road debris, including pieces of gravel and small insects, from hitting your screen as you drive, and perhaps obscuring your vision. 

Air deflectors may also be used on side windows, preventing the same debris from landing inside the car when the window is open, and also protecting the driver and passengers from rain. Wind deflectors may also be used with a sunroof, helping to reduce the noise generated by the wind and the effects of turbulence upon people in the car. This type of deflector also helps protect passengers from annoying dust and debris entering the car through the sunroof and spoiling a perfectly good road trip! 

Air deflectors are available in a range of colors and materials, allowing you to customize this car part’s impact on your vehicle. Choose from a wide range of styles including transparent plastic and matte black, or choose a deflector to match the color of your car. Whatever style you choose, you can be sure that this car part will  enhance your driving experience, while also adding style and interest to your vehicle.


