Title: 
AMAZING UWB enabled Vehicular Safety System Revealed !!

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Good Car Safety Systems are essential to a safer ride..Come and check out the latest ultra wideband technology on the future of car safety systems !!


Keywords:
automotive safety, benefits of uwb, car safety systems, cars, flashG, safe cars, safety 


Article Body:
Imagine a world with real time vehicle speed monitoring with vehicles “talking” to each other, and reducing the collision rate highly. It is now possible with UWB Technology !!

With Ultra Wide Band (UWB) technology, vehicles can have real time monitoring of vehicle speed, and enhances safety by triggering safety mechanisms automatically during imminent danger. The target users are the road users, the car companies and the government. The 

system can be integrated seamlessly into the existing system, and no additional user intervention is necessary. It works by having both the transmitter and receiver on the 

particular vehicle, and through reflection from front objects, analyze the speed and determine if there is a need to trigger the safety mechanisms. Through this system, car users can be assured of the safety of the vehicle, and hence increase their confidence in 

their vehicles and the car companies. Currently, there are substitute products available such as that from Volvo which is equipped with a radar sensor, and through monitoring the speed, decide if automatic braking is necessary. However, UWB is also a force to reckon with 

and the advantages of the UWB technology are as follows:

Firstly, an advantage will be in terms of performance. Given UWB’s minimum speed of 100Mbps and up to a potential of 500Mbps, there can be better instantaneous monitoring, and hence a better triggering of safety mechanisms which will be the deciding factor between life and death. The current products are not capable of getting total collision avoidance, which might be possible with UWB due to a faster processing rate of data with UWB technology.


Secondly, the current collision avoidance products mostly utilize wave radar, laser, or infrared spectroscopy, which is highly dependent on the weather conditions, the road surface conditions and the amount of interference present in the surrounding. Ultra-Wideband(UWB) gets a clear advantage as it has been found that UWB actually works better in the presence of multipart interference, and is independent of the weather conditions.


Thirdly, UWB technology can blend in with the existing technologies, and given the low power consumption, it also need less system complexity and low costs to set up. Hence UWB create value by low investment costs.

Fourthly, UWB create value by giving the customers assurance of the safety of their vehicle every time they use it. The road users who have used UWB will have more confident in their vehicles and the car companies, and creates more demand.

However, challenges are present, and one of them is the need to ensure that it does not interfere or disrupt existing radio-communication services. As such, a set of technical 

specifications and operating conditions for UWB devices has been defined, to be aligned with international standards such as those set by Europe's Electronic Communications Committee.

To conclude, although there are some challenges ahead for UWB technology, it is nonetheless a very promising technology, which is already set to revolutionize our lives in the near future.


