Title: 
An Inside Look At The Nissan Skyline

Word Count:
413

Summary:
Learn An Inside Look At The Nissan Skyline


Keywords:
nissan cars auto


Article Body:
Not commonly found in the United States, the Nissan Skyline is a Japanese sports car with a lot of history.  Dating back 45 years, the Nissan Skyline has received many awards and has earned the nickname "Godzilla."  While it's far from being the monster machine that it's nickname implies, this Japanese original is larger than life.

After an absence in production for 10 years, Nissan announced that it would release a new GT-R Skyline model in 1989.  It was set to compete in the Japan Touring Car Group A racing series and lead the field in an undefeated first season.  For the next four years, the GT-R Nissan Skyline was awarded the Japan Touring Car Group A championship.  In 1994, in honor of it's spectacular achievements, the Nissan Skyline was given it's own series, which was called the Japan GT Car series.  For the years ahead, the Nissan Skyline proved to be a dominating force in Japanese racing.  Ultimately, there was never a Skyline GT-R made to comply with standards set forth by the United States.  However, Motorex imports and modifies the Nissan Skyline GT-R in order to meet requirements so that the cars may be sold in America.

The Nissan Skyline automobiles are popular among youngsters, as well.  Ok, so maybe they don't have a license to drive, but they can certainly burn some rubber on video games and that's exactly what they are doing.  Throughout the years, racing video games have become very popular among kids of all ages - both young and old.  The Nissan Skyline has appeared in numerous video games after being recognized for it's speed and sleek sporty design.  Along those same lines, the Nissan Skyline has been recognized in many of the biggest motion pictures to feature a racing theme.  Clearly, the motto for these cars are outlined in their sleek design and sports car appearance.  

The Nissan Skyline is an intermediate-size automobile, which is originally manufactured in Japan before being exported to other countries.  It is sold as either a coupe or sedan style automobile and has been produced, in various models, since the 1950s.  In 2008, the next generation of Nissan Skyline GT-R automobiles may be sold in the United States.  Until that time, these luxury style sports cars can be converted to local standards by various manufacturers who agree to sale the automobiles.  Only time will tell what the Nissan Skyline has in store but, with its rich racing history, you can bet they will race out of stock.


