Title: 
Antique Cars: How to Choose the Perfect Color

Word Count:
511

Summary:
The paint job is often the last step of car restoration, but last is not least, as the paint job is usually the first thing noticed.


Keywords:
antique cars, classic cars, car restoration, muscle car parts, classic car parts


Article Body:
Antique cars, often referred to as classic cars, are usually prized possessions of their owners. After all of mechanical work has been done to restore them to perfect working conditions, painting is usually the last step in the process.

Just because it's the last step, however, does not mean that it's the least important step. In fact, the painting of antique cars is quite possibly the most important undertaking of the restoration process. For, it is what gets noticed first.

Following are some handy tips to following when painting prized possessions like classic cars.

3 Ideas for Choosing the Perfect Color for Your Antique Car

This is a personal choice but should be done with care, especially if you have restored your antique car for the purpose of selling it. Just like choosing paint colors for your home, there are some definite do's and don'ts.

Choose mainstream car colors: Black, red, white, navy blue, cream, gray, etc. These are considered traditional colors that never go out of style. They're not trendy and are unlikely to turn off buyers like, for instance, lime green.

If you're having a hard time deciding on a color, try one of the following to get some ideas:

(i) Go with the original color of the car: This is an easy option that is "saleable" as well. For example, your ad could read, "Lovingly restored antique car, right down to the original color." Classic car buyers tend to like vehicles that have as much of the original look and feel of the car as possible, including the color.

(ii) Peruse classic car magazines: Again, just like home décor magazines, these provide a multitude of color ideas - quite possibly colors you never would have considered.

(iii) Ask other classic car enthusiasts: It's always a good idea to get broad a range of opinion from those who share the antique car passion. 

You can employ one or all of these tactics. While paint is not permanent, it's not something you want to make a mistake on simply because it can be changed. Getting the color right the first time means you can sell - or start to enjoy - the car that much sooner.

The above color-choosing ideas are meant for those who wish to sell an antique car. If the car is for your personal use, then choose whatever your heart desires. 

Antique Cars: How to Choose a Professional Paint Shop

Now that you've spent time choosing the perfect color, it's time to choose someone to do the job. Following is some advice on choosing the right shop. 

 Make sure that the paint shop you choose has been in business for a while. This is important because it means they will have all of the necessary tools and equ8ipment to get the job done right. 

Antique cars are prized possessions that owners want to protect from dust, grime, rust, wear and tear. A reputable paint shop will be able to give you information on the different types of paint finishes you can use to protect against all of this.


