Title: 
Antique Car Parts

Word Count:
592

Summary:
Owning an antique car is a dream shared by many men and women. Cruising down the street in a classic car not only turns a few heads it makes you feel great knowing that you’ve invested in something of value. 

For many people they decide to restore the antique car they’ve purchased. They know that even though it involves a lot of time and work, the end result is well worth the effort. 

One of the first things to consider if you are planning on taking on the restoration o...


Keywords:
antique,car parts


Article Body:
Owning an antique car is a dream shared by many men and women. Cruising down the street in a classic car not only turns a few heads it makes you feel great knowing that you’ve invested in something of value. 

For many people they decide to restore the antique car they’ve purchased. They know that even though it involves a lot of time and work, the end result is well worth the effort. 

One of the first things to consider if you are planning on taking on the restoration of an antique car as a hobby is where you’ll go to find parts. Antique car parts can be difficult to find. You generally can’t walk into your automotive supply store and request the part. Instead you have to do a bit of research to find out where the antique car parts you need can be purchased. 

The first place to go to research antique car parts is the internet. Pull up a search page and type in the phrase “antique car parts” followed by your city. With any luck several results will pop up that will give you a resource locally. 

If the results of the search aren’t as favorable you can begin to research online stores that specialize in antique car parts. 

There are several companies who work with their customers to find the antique car parts they need. They are much like a locator service. You request a part and they put the leg work in to find out where the part can be purchased from. You then pay them a finder’s fee and purchase the particular antique car part from the source they quoted. 

There are also companies whose focus is strictly in antique car parts. They compile a vast collection of varied parts and offer them to their customers through their website or store front. There will be additional charges for shipping but if you’ve been having trouble locating a specific part this can be a welcomed resource. 

Another source for finding antique car parts is your local newspapers. Sometimes collectors decide to sell off certain parts. You simply peruse the listings and contact the seller asking about the condition of the antique car part you are searching for and the price. Quite often they are excited to help you with your project and will offer you a reasonable price for the required part. 

Sometimes you can find a treasure in an unexpected place. Auto wreckers often have antique cars in their lots. These are cars that were not restored and they reached such a debilitated condition that they are now being used strictly for parts. 

Some auto wreckers keep a very close inventory on what is on their property. In this case you’ll simply need to call them and inquire about the part citing the type of antique car you have and what you need. They’ll search their computer database and be able to tell you whether or not they can supply you that antique car part. 

Other auto wreckers prefer their customers to come to their location and look over the vehicles themselves. You’ll want to take a few tools with you just in case you do locate the part you are searching for. The majority of auto wrecking operations require the customer remove the desired part themselves. 

Although it can be tricky to find the antique car parts you need, with a little research you should get what you need to completely restore the vehicle.


