Title: 
Are You A Sports Car Fanatic? Meet The New 2007 Jaguar XKR

Word Count:
411

Summary:
The new 2007 Jaguar XKR concept also has been finally unveiled. The two-door convertible and four-seater coupe XKR represents the latest technology in lightweight vehicle structure of future Jaguar vehicles.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar XKR,Jaguar parts,Jaguar accessories


Article Body:
Lustrous and elegant, the new 2007 Jaguar XKR concept also has been finally unveiled. The two-door convertible and four-seater coupe XKR represents the latest technology in lightweight vehicle structure of future Jaguar vehicles. It also shows off fine design and efficient performance. The Jaguar XKR truly offers its occupants nothing but a smooth and sporty driving experience. 

Ian Callum, Jaguar’s Director or Design states: "We talk at Jaguar of how our new generation of models are 'beautiful, fast cars'. It's a phrase that ideally sums up our brand and can be applied to every car we design. We were extremely proud of the reaction to the new XK when it was unveiled last year - it is as beautiful as you would expect a Jaguar sports car to be. Now, the new XKR has a look that emphasizes the 'fast' aspect of our design statement. The 'powerline' that runs from the front wheel through the cabin area and into the car's rear haunches remains, and we have added to that latent feeling of power by adding some strong performance features such as the vents that signify the potent supercharger and the stunning new alloys that fill the wheel arches and give the car real purpose."

The Jaguar XKR convertible is considered as the most potent model in the Jaguar family. Like other XK Jaguar models, the new XKR also provides modern technology features like the aluminum monocoque body structure. The unique front bumper design showcases the sporty side of Jaguar models. The Jaguar XKR is equipped with the supercharged V-8 4.2-liter engine and the high-class calibration six-speed automatic transmission that helps the driver to have a nice drift on the road. The up-rated 420 HP that produces an amount of 413 pounds of torque shows the improved performance of the new XKR. The improvement in power and torque of the XKR is obtained because of the latest additions on the engine components. For the very first time, Jaguar engineers equipped the new XKR with the Variable Inlet Camshaft Timing System. This added system helps the engine to adjust in various situations depending on the speed and the volume of load.  

Interior features of the new Jaguar XKR include the high-class sport-designed seats and a spacious cabin that will surely offer a comfortable ride for its occupants. An easy to use instrument panel and a clear dashboard area also provide efficiency in driving. The new 2007 Jaguar XKR is remarkably a true and elegant sports car.


