Title: 
Are You Really Safe From Carjackers?

Word Count:
345

Summary:
Aside from the fact that you may never see your vehicle again, carjacking could also be very hazardous to both your physical safety as well as the carjacker’s. You see, if you are the victim, you may try to maneuver your way out and in the process run the carjacker over.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo parts,Volvo accessories


Article Body:
Carjacking. What is it? Well, it is a crime of motor vehicle theft. Most of the time, a carjacker is armed so much so that the owner of the driver of the car is forced out of the vehicle. 

Aside from the fact that you may never see your vehicle again, carjacking could also be very hazardous to both your physical safety as well as the carjacker’s. You see, if you are the victim, you may try to maneuver your way out and in the process run the carjacker over. On the other hand, the carjacker could use their weapon and try shooting you. They also try pushing the occupant out of the car. 

If you are simply going to park your car, make sure that you park it somewhere that has lots of lights. Also, be sure that it is a busy area with plenty of motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic. If possible, try parking somewhere that is very close to your destination. The more people around, the lesser the chances of a carjacker striking and working up the nerve to attack your car. 

Also, make sure that everything valuable is hidden. Keep your windows rolled up and check all doors and windows before leaving the car. Make sure everything is locked up. And when you are going back to your car, have your keys handy. These carjackers could attack when you are posed trying to search for your keys. Be on the alert always. 

On the other hand, if you are on the road, make sure that your car is always well-maintained. This assures you that the chances of your car breaking down are slimmer. Cars that have broken down are the usual targets for carjackers. Driving should also be something to plan ahead of time. It would be best if you try going through routes that are busy and well-lit. 

The center lane is more safe. Remember that once you get stuck in traffic, the carjackers would have to go though a tough time first before they actually reach your car.


