Title: 
Are You Looking for a Luxury Car? Consider the Cadillac CTS

Word Count:
735

Summary:
There are going to be some who see the name Cadillac and initially dismiss it as a brand that their parents or grandparents might drive. But those who understand a need for speed, luxury styling and a manual transmission will tell you that the Cadillac CTS and CTS-V has everything the savvy shopper and driver may want to find in a vehicle.


Keywords:
caddilac, cadilac, used, cadilacs, caddilacs, escalade, escalades, cts, cts-v, speed, styling, review, cadilac cts, caddilac cts, luxury, car, vehicle


Article Body:
Sometimes it seems that a car is far more than just a car. Talk to someone with a Land Rover and they're sure to tell you that their vehicle is much more than just a Jeep, while Jeep drivers will tell you that their vehicles are a way of life.

Turn on the TV and you're likely to hear that when you're looking for a long-lasting vehicle, you should turn to a Honda, and if you're looking for quality, you should consider buying a Toyota.

Similarly, many will tell you that if you are looking for a luxury ride, if you're looking for vehicle that's high on both class and style there's only one option: you'll have to get yourself a Cadillac.

There are going to be some who see the name Cadillac and initially dismiss it as a brand that their parents or grandparents might drive. But those who understand a need for speed, luxury styling and a manual transmission will tell you that the Cadillac CTS has everything the savvy shopper and driver may want to find in a vehicle.

First, there's the Cadillac CTS engine - a 2.8-liter dual overhead engine with an output well over 200-horsepower - that will get you started in a hurry as soon as the light turns green or when the freeway traffic eases up.

Then there's the interior. Proving once again that the Cadillac CTS is far from a traditional Caddy with a more youthful feel, the CTS has comfortable leather seats, an easy to navigate dash and an absence of the wood trim that many younger drivers feel is out-of-place in an automobile.

Instead, the Cadillac CTS focuses on all of the features that younger drivers are looking for - quality, luxury, responsive power, and best of all, speed. Drivers and passengers of the Cadillac CTS will find that there's plenty of space in the front and rear seats. They'll find that climate control is a breeze in the CTS - with all of the controls easy to access and use.

Most importantly, they'll find that they have easy control over a high-quality stereo system - a system that is iPod friendly, making it easy to keep the stereo playing your favorite tracks whether you are driving across town or across the country on a road trip with friends.

Equally handy for those who are taking long road trips is the navigation system that is optional on the Cadillac CTS. With GM’s OnStar system, you'll find street maps, hear turn-by-turn directions along with distances, and be able to plan the best route for getting to where you want to be.

With the Cadillac CTS, you'll find all of the luxurious styling that is synonymous with the Cadillac brand. You'll find a smooth driving and riding experience, and you will find that Cadillac makes it easy for you to be able to customize your car so that it has everything that you really want and need.

Are you looking for more power than the standard CTS will offer? Then, upgrade to the Cadillac CTS-V with its 400-horsepower V8 engine that will deliver 0-to-60 mph performance in 4.6 seconds.

What most folks simply do not realize is that the Cadillac brand generally produces some of the fastest American-made cars in the marketplace. According to an article written by Isaak Carter in 2007 titled, "Surprises in the American Performance Car Market", Cadillac had three of the fastest American-built automobiles in the 2006 model line-up. In fact, the four-door Cadillac CTS-V finished in ninth place in the Forbes countdown, with a top-speed of 163 mph. One reviewer even described the Cadillac CTS-V as a "luxury sedan with the performance of a Corvette."

If you want to be sure that your car’s temperature is comfortable even on the coldest days, then upgrade to the heated seats - and if you are really serious about a vehicle that caters to your every whim, you can also opt for the heated steering wheel that is offered with the Cadillac CTS models. Want a sound system that your friends will be envious of you for having? Then, upgrade your speakers and consider having a satellite radio system installed.

Envy is a beautiful thing, when you see it on the faces of the people in your life. Take the Cadillac CTS for a test drive and see for yourself why it is one of the top-rated vehicles in the luxury automobile marketplace.


