Title: 
Are You Smelling Car Trouble?

Word Count:
344

Summary:
There are distinct smells that emanate from your car as it goes through time and use. However, as the owner or driver, you would know that these are the usual odors and that would not be something to get alarmed about. What you should be on the alert about are some types of smells or odors that seem to be different, and out of the ordinary.


Keywords:
auto parts,intake manifold,fuel tank,accessories


Article Body:
What is the usual smell that your car has?

For most cars the usual smell would be the scent of leather or of the materials used. This usually goes for those newly purchased cars. On the other hand, there are also distinct smells that emanate from your car as it goes through time and use. However, as the owner or driver, you would know that these are the usual odors and that would not be something to get alarmed about. 

What you should be on the alert about are some types of smells or odors that seem to be different, and out of the ordinary. These are the smells that you should be aware about for they could conceal something much more serious than simply a smell out of place. 

If you smell an odor emanating from your exhaust, it could indicate that there is a leak in the exhaust system. It could mean a hole in your car’s tailpipe, exhaust pipe, exhaust manifold, or even the muffler. It could also mean that your hatchback or rear door already has a worn out seal. If this happens, you should take on the challenge immediately for you might get carbon monoxide inside your car which could get pretty deadly. What you should do is to bring your car to a mechanic right away. 

If you smell raw gas, it could mean that there is a leak in your car’s fuel delivery system. What could be affected is your car’s fuel lines, gas tank, or your fuel filter. This is also dangerous for any fuel leaks could spark a car fire. You can remedy the situation by first seeking if you have put back the gas cap right on properly. If this does not seem to be the problem, then go straight away to your mechanic. 

The smell of rotten eggs could also be something that you may notice and this means that your catalytic converter has become plugged. Once you smell this, go see your mechanic so as to remedy the problem.


