Title: 
Arrive in Style: Types of Limousines You Can Rent

Word Count:
572

Summary:
The limousine, also called the limo, has come to be associated with luxury, glamour and style.


Keywords:
travel, limousine hire


Article Body:
The limousine, also called the limo, has come to be associated with luxury, glamour and style. It is used by the government to transport the highest officials of the country. It is used by celebrities riding to red carpet events. It is used by millionaires, business tycoons, rock stars. If you’re important, you arrive in a limousine—and before you’ve even stepped out of the car, you’ve already made a grand entrance.

Even if you’re not a politician, celebrity, or important CEO, limousine hire enables you to borrow that high luxury life even for a few hours. It is often used in weddings, important gala nights, or as an upmarket competitor to taxicabs. And for every occasion, there are a number of limousine models that can be used.

The Lincoln Limousine

The Lincoln Limousine is like a large, long sedan, which gives the person riding in the backseat a great deal of comfortable legroom. Sometimes, additional seats are attached directly behind the driver, facing rearward. About five people can be seated in the back of the Lincoln Limousine, and two more with the driver.

However, most of the newer models do not have the additional seats, replacing them instead with video equipment like televisions and video players, as well as a fully-stocked bar. 

The Stretch Limo

When you’ve got a chauffeur, parking is never a problem—and good thing, too. The stretch limo, a popular model for partygoers who want to make a grand, Hollywood style entrance, is extremely long. The seats are arranged alongside the length of the car, perpendicular to the driver. This allows groups of people to sit facing each other, making it easier to talk and perhaps even make a toast with the complimentary champagne. There is only one door, unlike other models which have multiple doors for the multiple rows of seats. 

Winton Six Limousine

This classic car isn’t actually a true limousine, but a circa 1915 luxury vehicle that’s a cross between a sedan and a bus. It has multiple doors, with an area for carrying passengers’ baggage. Because of its vintage feel and Old World charm, it still has a sense of glamour and luxury, further heightened by its rarity. It is sometimes called a “Jammer” and was once used to transport railroad passangers; today, it is the vehicle of choice of royalty in traditional processions. Ride it, and feel like a king.

Exotic custom limousines

You can actually hire the ultimate stretch limo, customized with luxury features. Some of these customizations employ cars like the Audi, BMW, Hummer, Jaguar, Mercedes Benz and Rollys Royce, although the more popular vehicles that are converted are the Lincoln Town Car, Cadillac DTS, Hummer H2, and the Lincoln Navigator. The typical additions are security features like armoring and bullet proof glass, as well as entertainment systems and even the occasional Jacuzzi.

Party bus

When it’s a large party—too large for a standard limousine—you can hire a party bus. This can comfortably seat 20 or more people, and can let you hold an event right in the vehicle (as opposed to just using it to drive to one). Features often include surround sound systems, a DVD player, plasma televisions, disco and strobe lights, and even smoke machines. Party buses are very popular for bachelor and bachelorette parties, proms, and tourist excursions. Some rent it for a special and unique birthday celebration.


