Title: 
Audi Q7: Still Bearing the Classic Touch

Word Count:
512

Summary:
The Audi Q7 was first unveiled for an exclusive group of journalists. The Audi Q7 is a sport utility vehicle. This online store holds the latest in innovative and stylish Audi parts where customers can order genuine parts and accessories at wholesale prices.


Keywords:
auto parts,Audi parts,Audi q7,headlights,bumper,tail lights,mirror,door


Article Body:
The Audi Q7 was first unveiled for an exclusive group of journalists. However, it was a closed-door affair that turned out to be quite a successful one with several people from Audi of America joining in to answer any questions regarding the new Audi Q7. The new Audi Q7 is built on the very same platform that is also used by the Volkswagen Touareg and the Porsche Cayenne. It also holds a wheelbase that is quite longer than the Volkswagen Touareg by almost six inches. This kind of wheelbase then provides the Audi Q7 an overall look that exudes a sleek and stretched look. 

The Audi Q7 is a sport utility vehicle. This vehicle has proportions that when combined work out very nicely providing a strong look. The vehicle contains and features headlights, tail lights, rear view mirrors and door handles that exude the traditional look that is considered to be simply an Audi. The Audi Q7 SUV has a grill that goes well with the vehicle’s painted horizontal strip and as well as the adopted standard dark gray that is quite standard for Audi’s vehicle lineup. Compared to the other models in the Audi family, the chrome strip around the grille for the Audi Q7 is considered to be quite narrow thus assisting greatly in making the grille of the Audi Q7 look a less overpowering. 

It could be noticed that the Audi Q7 has the very same classic proportions that Audi Avants have. This includes a high shoulder line, a narrow window area, a sloping roofline that moves towards the rear of the Audi Q7, and an angled rear window. These all combine to provide a classy look for this sport utility vehicle. Basically, the taillights of the Audi Q7 are very much like the Audi Avant with its tips forming top corners of the license plate opening. Other than that, the Audi Q7 also has a rear bumper that has two long and thin reflectors mounted on it. This rear bumper holds the added assumed function of being turn signals or rear fog lights. 

Setting the Audi Q7 apart from the Volkswagen Touareg and the Porsche Cayenne is this vehicle’s optional third row seating. The center row for this sport utility vehicle has the ability to fold back down and slide forward, thus giving ample and easy access to the rear seating. It also contains a middle row that has the capacity to slide forward and provide more legroom for the rear seats. As for the third row, this entire row of seats could fold flat on the floor when it is not utilized. This gives more cargo area in the rear. The Audi Q7 also has an electronic control for this third row. 

For impressive collections of Audi parts, customers can visit Auto Parts Online. This online store holds the latest in innovative and stylish Audi parts. Auto Parts Online is where customers can order genuine Audi parts and accessories at wholesale prices. Auto Parts Online supplies superior and highly durable Audi parts currently available.


