Title: 
Audi TT: Offering Driving Pleasure

Word Count:
505

Summary:
Manufactured as a front drive coupe and as a roadster, the Audi TT has a unique style and design that makes it stand out from the rest. The vehicle overall provides drivers and users great luxury and comfort along with superior class and high technology auto components and equipments.


Keywords:
auto parts,Audi parts,Audi TT parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Introduced in 1995, the Audi TT was still a concept car that time. After three years, the Audi TT came rolling off the manufacturing and assembly lines to the streets. This new vehicle then held the Audi A4’s shorter version of its platform. This vehicle was manufactured as a front drive coupe and as a roadster. It also was sold and offered with a Quattro all wheel drive. 

The Audi TT has a unique style and design that makes it stand out from the rest. It has a roofline that quite resembles the Volkswagen’s new Beetle. In 2000, this vehicle received a nomination for the North American Car of the Year award. That same year and the following year, the Audi TT also made its way to the Car and Driver magazine’s ten best cars list. 

The Audi TT offers three engine configurations that includes a 130/180 horsepower 1.8 T turbocharged engine with four cylinders. There is also a 225 horsepower 1.8 engine with intercooled turbos. Both the coupe and the roadster offer a front-wheel and an all-wheel drive. To add to the sporty façade and look of the Audi TT, 17 inch alloy wheels with a six spoke cast are added in plus high performance tires and high intensity Xenon headlamps that has an automatic adjustment. The vehicle overall provides drivers and users great luxury and comfort along with superior class and high technology auto components and equipments. The features include anti-lock brakes, an electronic stability program, an electronic brake force distribution, an electronic differential lock, a CD audio system, and Homelink. Given as standard features for the Audi TT are seat-mounted head and chest side airbags and dual front airbags. Safety features are also added in for the Audi TT. The list includes three-point safety belts with pretensioners and load limiters and the LATCH system for child seats’ safety. Space and comfort is something that the Audi TT is generous of. 

For Audi, the automobile company, the TT is equated to full strength and pure driving pleasure. The vehicle captivates the driver with its total agility and revolutionary design. The vehicle also gives more output and lesser weight. It also has a striking two-color finish that gives the Audi TT a unique look. The color and hue choices for this model line includes avus silver, misano red, Mauritius blue, silver, and phantom black. 

A new Audi TT is expected to make its grand public debut at the 2006 Geneva Auto Show this coming March. Rumors have it that it will contain a styling that is loyal to the original design made by Freeman Thomas. Of course, changes will be done for the vehicle and that will include headlights and taillights that it gets from the Le Mans Concept. 

Customers and owners can maintain the superior performance of the Audi TT with Auto Parts Go. Auto Parts Go is the leading supplier of Nissan discount-priced and quality Audi parts. For performance demands Auto Parts Go offers a collection of high quality and durable parts.
</p>


