Title: 
Audi Vehicles Gather Awards At 2006 Auto Interior Show

Word Count:
341

Summary:
The Audi brand has taken home quite a huge share of the awards that were given during the 2006 Auto Interior Show. In fact, this brand’s three vehicles – the Audi Q7, Audi A3, and the Audi S8 – took home an award each from the said show.


Keywords:
auto parts,Audi,Audi parts,Audi coupe parts,Audi accessories


Article Body:
The Audi brand has taken home quite a huge share of the awards that were given during the 2006 Auto Interior Show. In fact, this brand’s three vehicles – the Audi Q7, Audi A3, and the Audi S8 – took home an award each from the said show. The 2006 Auto Interior Show is all about those vehicles that hold outstanding design in its interior as well as exceptional quality. Voting is done by media involved in coverage of the auto industry. For this year, the Auto Interior of the Year Awards was part of the Ward’s Auto Interiors Show. 

Produced by the Volkswagen AG, the Audi Q7 is a new vehicle in the market. Production for this vehicle starts next year. It has been built as a sport utility vehicle that holds four doors and has been built on the AWD platform. Its power comes from a 4.2 liter V8 engine and works with a six speed automatic transmission system. In spite of it being a newcomer to the automobile market, it took home the news media award for the Premium Priced Crossover Utility Vehicle (CUV) category. Its competition, the Mercedes Benz M class, Infiniti FX, Lexus RX, Volvo XC90, and Porsche Cayenne, better watch out for this one. 

Another Audi vehicle that took home an award was the Audi A3. It received the news media award for the Popular Priced Car category. Since its introduction, the Audi A3 has been a constant favorite among media people because it held interiors that were stylish and very luxurious. This vehicle has been in production since 1996 and has been produced as a hatchback that held either three doors or five. 

A car with a good combination of sounds, the Audi S8 took home the news media award for the Best Sound System. This was all because of the new Bang and Olufsen audio system that it held inside its cabin. Built on the FF and AWD platforms, the Audi S8 is a full size luxury car and has been roaming the streets and roads since 1994.


