Title: 
BCAA Warns Owners About Cars, Pets, And Children

Word Count:
336

Summary:
The British Columbia Automobile Association, or much commonly referred to as the BCAA, has just warned drivers and car owners about the possible risks that could take place when you have pets and children inside the vehicle. And with the temperature predicted to get even hotter, the results of locked pets or children inside cars could prove to be fatal for these little tots.


Keywords:
auto parts,Chevy,classic Chevy truck parts,Chevy parts,Chevy accessories


Article Body:
The British Columbia Automobile Association, or much commonly referred to as the BCAA, has just warned drivers and car owners about the possible risks that could take place when you have pets and children inside the vehicle. And with the prediction of having even higher and hotter temperatures coming in a couple of days and weeks, it is best that drivers and vehicle owners are aware of the risks involved. 

According to Ken Cousin, “When we receive a call from a member notifying us that a child is locked in a car, we drop everything. We dispatch the nearest resource to get there as soon as possible.” Ken Cousin is the road assist director of the BCAA. And this kind of situation has become quite normal and ordinary for the organization, according to this director. So far for 2006, the BCAA has been able to rescue at the very least 130 children from cars which got locked. The number of course does not include the forty or so pets that they also rescued from these cars. 

When children do play about or when pets scamper around the vehicle, they could accidentally lock themselves in. And what could be very unlucky would be getting these children or pets locked in with your car keys also inside the vehicle. This could happen anytime even when you just get out of the car for a couple of seconds to pickup the new set of classic Chevy truck parts that you may have purchased. Situations like this could also arise when you get distracted over some trivial things. And with the temperature predicted to get even hotter, the results of locked pets or children inside cars could prove to be fatal for these little tots. 

BCAA recommends that as drivers or car owners, you should never ever leave kids and pets alone inside a car. If you have to go some place for just a short amount of time, it would be best to bring the pets or the kids along. 
</p>


