Title: 
Bearing the Soul of a Sports Car

Word Count:
503

Summary:
Mazda is responsible for the Mazda 6, which is also known as the Mazda Atenza. This vehicle is a mid-size car and this replaced the Capella/626. The Mazda 6 sports a combination of athletic stance along with top of the class sophistication.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda 6 parts,Mazda parts


Article Body:
Japanese automobile manufacturer Mazda is responsible for the Mazda 6, which is also known as the Mazda Atenza. This vehicle is a mid-size car and this replaced the Capella/626. It has a line up that includes a sedan with four doors, a hatchback with five doors, and an estate wagon. The name Mazda Atenza is only used in Japan, however, in any place the world over, this vehicle is known as the Mazda 6. The platform for this vehicle is used by the Ford Motor Company as the base for quite a number of its vehicles which includes the Ford Fusion, the Mercury Milan, the Lincoln Zephyr, the Lincoln MKX, and a range of its sport utility vehicles and minivans. 

A high performance version of the Mazda 6 is the 2006 MazdaSpeed 6. This vehicle features a turbocharged version of the 2.3 liter MZR I4 which has the capability to produce 274 horsepower. It has a revised front end with a raised hood, a 6-speed transmission, and an all wheel drive. Some markets, including Australia, has the MazdaSpeed 6 under the name Mazda 6 MPS, with MPS standing for Mazda Performance Series. This vehicle has an outstanding performance. Primarily, it has a driving experience and acceleration that is often seen in vehicles with a higher price to it, along with two fewer seats. 

The Mazda 6 sports a combination of athletic stance along with top of the class sophistication. It gives a full attention to detail. It also has great vehicle dynamics and performance. It carries with it the characteristics of a sports car that is very rarely seen in vehicles in its class. It exudes a unique, fresh yet dynamic cabin design that is coupled up with an exceptional level of comfort and quietness. Space is something that the Mazda 6 could be generous of. Its interior has a smoothly contoured, T-shaped instrument panel that is mounted on a sporty titanium look finish. The Mazda 6’s sleek interior emphasizes the power that this vehicle is capable of. It has well defined shoulders and smoother curves that makes the Mazda 6 stand high above the rest of the vehicles out on the roads. This vehicle also has put in the necessary safety standards and adds up an expressive list of advanced safety features. This vehicle has been engineered to meet or exceed crash safety standards in the different markets around the globe. 

Customers and owners of Mazda 6 can check Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts’ extensive stock of Mazda 6 parts and Mazda auto parts. 

Rumors have it that a larger version of the Mazda 6 will be made for 2008 or 2009 bearing the name Mazda 9. However, as for the Mazda 6, it certainly has been bagging awards for itself. Awards that this vehicle received includes the 2nd place for the European car of the year, the Canadian Car of the Year Best New Station Wagon award, and the Canadian Car of the Year Best New Family Car award for 2005. Along that line, this vehicle has also been included in Car and Driver magazine’s Ten Best list for 2003.


