Title: 
Beneath the Volvo 940

Word Count:
387

Summary:
In the United States and the rest of North America, the Volvo 940 made its way to public knowledge as a 1991 model. This series of vehicles were in essence just a style and design makeover of the Volvo 740. People claimed this was so because the drivetrains one found on the Volvo 940 is also what the Volvo 740 used.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo 940,Volvo parts,Volvo 940 parts


Article Body:
The Volvo 940 is a part of the Swedish car maker’s line up of vehicles. Fact is, this vehicle is one of the last of the large rear wheel drive cars that is produced under the Volvo brand and name. In the United States and the rest of North America, the Volvo 940 made its way to public knowledge as a 1991 model. This series of vehicles were in essence just a style and design makeover of the Volvo 740. People claimed this was so because the drivetrains one found on the Volvo 940 is also what the Volvo 740 used. But not only that, for the Volvo 940 also has most features that the older vehicle had. 

The sharing of components part was what led people to think that the Volvo 940 was just another Volvo 740. In fact, the Volvo 940 held the same dashboard, and the same choices for its drivetrain. Also the same was the sheetmetal from the A pillar forward. But of course, there were changes and distinctions between the two. If one would look at the brighter side of these two cars, he would be able to see that the Volvo 940 is more updated and was the car that underwent evolution. 

This vehicle model from Volvo was made available in body styles that comprise of the sedan (salon), and the wagon (estate). The last of its kind rolled off the manufacturing plants in the year 1998. Going back to its humble beginnings, the Volvo 940 was actually introduced to the public along with its sibling, the Volvo 960. Both of these vehicles held seen petrol engines with four cylinders. There was also the optional turbocharged engine as well as the turbo diesel engine with six cylinders. And just like any other Volvo vehicle, the Volvo 940 came packed with safety features. The collection of safety features included a three-point inertia-reel seat belt, an adjustable head restraint in the middle of the rear seat, and an integrated child seat built into the rear sear’s middle armrest. The adjustable head restraint was actually a precursor to the world’s first. This leaps done by Volvo with the Volvo 940 as per safety was recognized well enough. And for that, Volvo received international awards that included the “Prince Michael Road Safety Award” as well as the prize for the best safety features from Auto Car and Motor.


