Title: 
Bio-Diesel – Run your car on it!

Word Count:
375

Summary:
Did you ever wonder what you would do if petrol went up to over £1 a litre or $3 a gallon?


Keywords:
 Green Businesses organic social ethics fair trade health renewable energy eco babies ethical animal testing bio solar wind nuclear cars auto farm


Article Body:
It’s likely that the farmers would blockade the countries roads for starters!  Unfortunately, the possibility of this happening are becoming more and more likely with increasing tensions around the world leading to ever increasing oil prices and volatility in the world markets. Fossil fuels are running out an alarming rate and people are starting to look seriously at other alternatives. 
Needless to say, an increase in oil prices will create hardships to the economy and in every person’s life. But some people state that the only way to get them to use public transport or to walk the 5 minutes to the local shop instead of driving is to price them out of using their cars for inefficient journeys. Increasingly people and making their own biodiesel fuel from used cooking oil to run their cars to reduce their dependence on oil. 

Biodiesel is made from vegetable oil (including used oil) in a process called •transesterification•, whereby the glycerine is separated from the oil leaving a clean burning fuel that will efficiently power any diesel engine with vastly reduced exhaust emissions this is good for the environment. People have been deserting their local petrol station in favour of using waste vegetable oil from large scale users such as pubs, restaurants, or pure oil off the shelf.

The government is becoming aware of this use of cheaper, alternative fuel and is targeting this eco method as they are not paying tax on this oil which they would be doing if they bought petrol. The government appears to pay lip service to reducing climate change as the small number of Bio-diesal users are being targeted for tax evasion instead of encouraged to use this eco friendly fuel. Where is the incentive for current Bio-diesel users and companies to invest in research and development?

For those of you that are thinking of making the change there are different process or kits available to convert car engines and these cost between £400 and £1,200. All you need to add is vegetable oil, methanol, a small amount of catalyst, electricity and tap water into this conversion and your ready to go! Oh….. and don’t forget to tell the taxman. 

Save energy by using  renewable products available via companies listed in GuideMeGreen.


