Title: 
BMW X5: For the Sporty Ones

Word Count:
502

Summary:
The BMW X5 combines the responsive and excellent performance that only a BMW can boast of along with space and room, flexibility, and the all-weather capacity of a sports utility vehicle.


Keywords:
auto parts,BMW accessories,body parts,wheels,BMW parts


Article Body:
One of the newest members of the BMW clan is the BMW X5. It first made its public debut in the United States last December 1999. It has been manufactured as a sports activity vehicle, or SAV. Aside from that, the BMW X5 has been marketed to target those people who are pining and vying for a vehicle that would be able to match their active lifestyles. This sports activity vehicle has been designed and crafted so as to compete in the sports utility vehicle, or SUV, market. The BMW X5 combines the responsive and excellent performance that only a BMW can boast of along with space and room, flexibility, and the all-weather capacity of a sports utility vehicle. 

Upon its introduction, the BMW X5 holds a 4.4 liter DOHC V8 engine with 32 valves. This engine has the ability to produce 282 horsepower. It can achieve 3,600 rpm with 0 to 60 mph in an acceleration time of 7.5 seconds. In 2001, the BMW X5 continues to utilize the tradition of the BMW vehicles in using inline six cylinder engine. Along with that, it also introduces a new powerplant which is the M54. This new source of power provides better fuel efficiency and lower emissions. The following year, the BMW X5 now featured a specially tuned engine that could provide and create an output of 340 horsepower along with 350 pound feet of torque. 

The BMW X5 holds a number of options for its exterior colors. The non-metallic choice of colors includes alpine white and jet black. As for the metallic hues, the list contains titanium silver, sienna red, topaz blue, steel gray, pearl beige, oxford green, gray green, and black sapphire. The interior trims have leather color options like beige, pastel green, black, and gray. The leatherette feature comes in two color choices – beige and black.

The BMW X5 also offers packages for those people who would like to upgrade and spruce up their sport activity vehicles. The sport package contains a sport steering wheel, a sport suspension,  door handles that are painted in the vehicle’s exterior paint color, upgraded 18 inch wheels made of alloy, anthracite headliner, white indicator lenses, a shadowline trim, a black chrome exhaust, and a titanium-colored grill. The cold weather package features a ski bag, heated front seats, and headlight washers. For the rear climate package, the list of the features includes rear door sunblinds, rear climate controls, and a privacy glass. The premium package, meanwhile, adds up body colored door handles, a power glass moonroof, light wood trim, power front seats, rear seat back adjustments, a rain sensor, an automatic air conditioning, an on-board computer, and leather upholstery. 

Same Day Car Parts manufactures and sells aftermarket performance parts and accessories for BMW vehicles. Same Day Car Parts strives to be the ultimate source for the auto parts and accessories for most BMW cars. This online store’s product line up for BMW parts include accessories, body kits, body parts, engines, floor mats, wheels, and a variety of additional upgrades that would spruce up your BMW.


