Title: 
BMW M: Not Just Another Sports Car

Word Count:
487

Summary:
BMW now adds up yet another product to their still growing family of vehicles. And right now, the new addition is the 2006 BMW M. It is a roadster. Well, for power, it has a front engine and a rear wheel drive system. It has damper struts, lower control arms, coil springs, and an anti-roll bar.


Keywords:
auto parts,BMW,BMW accessories,BMW M,BMW parts


Article Body:
What is a sports car? There have already been quite a few personal definitions to what a sports car sounds to them. However, for most people, a sports car is a BMW. 

BMW now adds up yet another product to their still growing family of vehicles. And right now, the new addition is the 2006 BMW M. It is a roadster. And it just goes to show that BMW meant business for this car. Its past shows a colorful BMW tradition as well as an in-depth research before it was actually constructed. Just go through its stretched engine compartment, its long wheelbase, its short tail, and its two low set of seats that all in all provides a high powered and very passionate driving experience, and one would be able to picture that, indeed, BMW is yet on the road, again, to success.  

What are the features of the BMW M roadster? Well, for power, it has a front engine and a rear wheel drive system. Its engine is a DOHC in line engine with 24 valves. It is an iron block with an aluminum head. It can displace 192 cubic inches or some 3152 cc. It also has the capacity to produce some 240 bhp at 6000 rpm. Aside form that, it also has a five speed manual transmission. The suspension is provided in two options. The first is the independent front suspension. It has damper struts, lower control arms, coil springs, and an anti-roll bar. As per the other one, it is an independent rear suspension with dampers, semi-trailing arms, coil springs, and anti-roll bars. 

How large is the BMW M? It measures some 96.8 inches for its wheelbase. Its rear is 55.0 inches. It has a curb weight of 3084 pounds, plus a fuel capacity of 13.5 gallons. If you want to put in some cargo, you can always do so for it has a meager cargo capacity of 5.1 cubic feet. 

The steering of this roadster is a rack and pinion one with variable ratio and is variable power assisted. It has a turning circle of 34.1 feet. The brakes are vented discs for both the front and the rear. There is also the anti lock braking system. As per the wheels and tires of this vehicle, the BMW M comes equipped with 17 x 7.5 inches front and 17 x 9.0 inches rear cast aluminum wheels. There also are 225/45ZR-17 tires for the front and 245/40ZR-17 tires for the rear. These are both Michelin Pilot SX MXX3 tires. 

As BMW ventures into high and advanced technology as well as great performance in their sports cars and other upcoming vehicles, Auto Accessories Giant never stops delivering top of the line BMW replacement parts as part of its commitment to its loyal customers worldwide. Rallying behind BMW’s philosophy of producing only the best in the industry, Auto Accessories Giant with its wide array of impressive BMW accessories gives it customer’s genuine quality BMW products at guaranteed low prices.


