Title: 
Boy Scouts Honor Ford

Word Count:
336

Summary:
Boy Scouts of America’s Cascade Pacific Council would be honoring the Ford Motor Company. The company would be given by the mentioned council as the Motorsports Company of the Year. Such an event would take place during the council’s 17th annual Motorsports Breakfast which would be held in Portland, Oregon.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford,Ford parts,Ford Contour parts,Ford Ranger parts,Ford accessories


Article Body:
June 15th this year would be the day when the Boy Scouts of America’s Cascade Pacific Council would be honoring the Ford Motor Company. The company would be given by the mentioned council as the Motorsports Company of the Year. Such an event would take place during the council’s 17th annual Motorsports Breakfast which would be held in Portland, Oregon. In fact, this breakfast is actually done as part of the activities and events of the Grand Prix of Portland which is an annual stop of the Bridgestone Presents The Champ Car World Series Powered by Ford. 

It was Ron Bennett who presented and gave the Motorsports Company of the Year award to the Ford Motor Company. Ron Bennett is one of the members of the Motorsports Breakfast Steering Committee. While honoring the company, he declares, “There are many similarities between the Ford Motor Company and the Boy Scouts. The perfect example is the Pinewood Derby. We both exercise imaginations and learn about the trials and tribulations of building the perfect race car. From designing the vehicle, placing the weights and even developing paint schemes, the Scouts prepare for their races in much the same way our engineers test and develop our race cars.” 

This award is an honor that is recognized well enough by the company. In fact, Jamie Allison, the manager for the Ford Racing Performance Group, had something to say about this. He states, “It is an honor to be recognized by the Cascade Pacific Council, Boy Scouts of America. I am privileged to accept this award on behalf of Dan Davis, Director of Ford Racing Technology and Ford Racing. It is a great honor for us to be recognized by an organization that has such an impact on the young people of the Portland area and across the country.” With the various kinds of awards and accolades that the company has received through the years, this award would be another one that would be part of the company’s treasure.


