Title: 
Brakes First Before Driving

Word Count:
306

Summary:
The brake is very much part of auto safety. And you should ensure that your brakes are still working well and that all its components are in excellent condition. A damaged brake system could actually cost you, your passengers, or anybody else on the road their lives.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar parts,Jaguar XJ40 parts,Jaguar brakes,Jaguar accessories,brakes


Article Body:
2600 deaths each year. About 100,000 injuries that lead to being disabled each year. 

These are the numbers from the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA). And these are simply the statistics for effects of crashes and vehicular accidents on the roads and streets of the United States. And with summer vacation coming up, it means many families and groups of friends would be out on road trips to various places around the country. That is why the NHTSA would like all drivers to check their brakes before they do go out and drive towards any destination. 

Brakes are very essential when driving. After all, it is what makes your car stop or slow down when you are driving at top speeds. In fact, your brake is very much part of auto safety. And you should ensure that your brakes are still working well and that all its components are in excellent condition. A damaged brake system could actually cost you, your passengers, or anybody else on the road their lives. 

The NHTSA recommends that you should not hesitate to invest in having your car go through an annual brake system analysis. In fact, automobile experts really do suggest that the braking system of your vehicle should be checked once a year at the very least. You should ask a technician to do this. However, it should be just any other technician. You should have the braking system checked by one who has been certified by the National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence. 

It also is important that you change the brake fluid of car for every 24,000 miles that your vehicle has traveled. This decreases your chances of meeting car emergencies or mishaps. By keeping your brake fluid fresh, you are sure that it is not contaminated with external fluid that decreases the efficiency of the whole system.


