Title: 
Brake Calipers, Car Blogs, and You

Word Count:
437

Summary:
Reading stuff online can be hazardous to your well being, if you do not consider the source and if you fail to verify what you read independently.


Keywords:
brake calipers, Ford, GM, Chrysler, Toyota, Honda, Nissan, Hyundai, Kia, Daewoo, BMW, Volvo, Dodge


Article Body:
If you are big fan of the internet, as I am, you likely appreciate having access to much of the information you read online. Where else can you find information that is accurate, easily obtainable, and above all else: free? The library, perhaps. Still, reading some of the car blogs out there can be a risky proposition especially if you are prone to taking everything you read as the “gospel truth.” 

Blogging certainly is fun and it is all the rage. You don’t have to know how to design web sites and you don’t even have to know how to write especially well. Therein lies the rub. Over the past several months I have had occasion to read information that is not only suspect, but downright inaccurate. Of course, if the writings are simply someone’s opinion about something that is one thing. However, when the writings give explicit instructions [or leave out pertinent information] on how to fix something, such as brake calipers, those instructions must be correct otherwise the reader could be obtaining information that isn’t just factually wrong, but dangerous.

Concerning brake calipers, if you are blogging about brakes, please make certain that when you discuss a brake inspection that you include brake calipers in the discussion along with pads, rotors, ABS, and more. Yes, a reputable mechanic will check all of that out, but diminishing that information in your blog entry can make the reader think that a brake caliper isn’t important. Indeed, they are important: brake calipers squeeze the brake pads onto the rotor to stop your car. Over time, brake caliper seals can wear out and your car can lose its braking capability.

I have several rules I follow when reading stuff online, particularly that which is posted on blogs:

1.	Who is the author? Is that information given or is it someone simply posting anonymously?

2.	Who manages the blog? Does this person know cars or not?

3.	What is the source of the quoted information? Is it from another author or is it simply company material regurgitated for all to read?

4.	Most importantly: is the site a bad neighborhood? Meaning, is it set up simply to capture cheap pay per click ads and not much else? I have a real problem with any site that is over run with advertising!

Ultimately, if you read something online check its veracity with at least one other source. You can easily “google” a few keywords and check the results for similar content. Of course, if someone is spreading inaccurate content all over the internet, then you know what the answer is!


