Title: 
Brake Safety. Some Warning Signs 1

Word Count:
503

Summary:
You can check online to find out some of the warning signs from sites that are concerned with cars, but there is no better way than to take your automobile to a brake specialist. Read on to know more . . .


Keywords:
Cars, Automobiles,Used Cars For Sale, Sell Used Cars, Used Cars, Cars For Sale, New Cars, Car Finance, Car Insurance


Article Body:
Your car's brakes may need maintenance or repair. When was the last time you checked the brake fluid, or even bothered to think about it?  For some reason when it comes to car safety, brakes top the list of systems that need monitoring, however, many people are oblivious to the signs that indicate a problem. You can check online to find out some of the warning signs from sites that are concerned with cars, but there is no better way than to take your automobile to a brake specialist.

At the very least, for both new and used cars, you must have your vehicle's braking system checked once a year. This should include a thorough inspection of brake lining wear, brake fluid level, rotor thickness, condition of hoses and brake lines, brake and dash warning lights, as well as taking the car for a test drive to detect other potential brake system problems.

Keeping your car in optimum condition is so important and whether it is old or very old, used or new car you might be thinking of trading up or buying something more reliable and with the newest safety features. Online searching is easy, particularly with sites like OzFreeOnline.com where they have thousands of cars classifieds for your inspection. All you need to do is register, become a member, select all the criteria you want for your new car and begin an advance search. Believe me you will be astounded at the numerous amounts of cars you can view online around Australia. Free car advertising is also available to get your used car visible nationwide to get more potential buyers and get it sold fast.

Vigilance is required to alert yourself and recognize the danger signs of brake problems in your automobile. For instance, other warning signs may include an illuminated brake warning light, brake ‘grabbing’, low pedal feel, vibration, hard pedal feel and squealing. Sometimes it's only a few miles between a soft brake pedal and a pedal that goes ‘flat’ to the floor. You can easily protect yourself from brake failure by watching and listening for a few simple clues. Of course, the only way you can be certain is to have your brakes checked at an authorized workshop such as autobrakeservice.com.au, ABS is the largest brake and clutch specialists and they have workshops in every major city that provides quality services to Australian cars.

Noise is one of the leading indicators that something is ‘off beam’ with brakes. Any out of the ordinary sound is often a sign that brakes have worn to the point they should be safety checked, so watch for a grinding noise, and if your brakes throw off brake dust on your wheels, look for a sudden increase or decrease in dust. Finding small metal flakes on the wheels is a clear sign that brakes must be checked. Remember, whether its brand new or an used automobile, checking your brakes every once in a while insures you of a safer drive.


