Title: 
Bringing Back the Chrysler 300 Name

Word Count:
481

Summary:
The Chrysler 300 was actually brought back by the automobile manufacturer so as to fill in the niche left behind by the Eagle Vision when it was discontinued. This vehicle has also been named as the Motor Trend magazine’s Car of the Year for the year 1999. Also, for the years 1999 and 2000, this same vehicle has raced its way to the Car and Driver magazine’s Ten Best list.


Keywords:
auto parts,Chrysler accessories,Chrysler 300 m,Chrysler parts


Article Body:
From the Chrysler brand, the Chrysler 300 is yet another luxury car. Although it is quite a remarkably modern vehicle, the name that this vehicle holds has actually been used for other vehicles dating back to 1955. As per the modern Chrysler 300, the name for this vehicle has been another revival from the old one. However, this new one holds a new front wheel drive. Aside from that, it also boasts of a powerful V6 engine. This vehicle has also been built on the Chrysler LH platform. The Chrysler 300 was actually brought back by the automobile manufacturer so as to fill in the niche left behind by the Eagle Vision when it was discontinued. This vehicle has also been named as the Motor Trend magazine’s Car of the Year for the year 1999. Also, for the years 1999 and 2000, this same vehicle has raced its way to the Car and Driver magazine’s Ten Best list.

Taking a ride in the interior of the Chrysler 300 would give the passenger the feeling of luxury and space. The interior has been designed with Satin Silver accents as well as other designs and accents like genuine California walnut and tortoise shell style accents. These could be found on the additional elegant analog clock and other features like the tilt and telescope steering wheel, the shift knob, and also on the front and rear door pull handles. One would feel like everything has been carefully handcrafted for a much more luxurious appeal. Refinement and sophistication are oftentimes the adjectives used to describe this vehicle’s interior. A choice of either leather or cloth is used for the seats. For leather, the color choices are Dark Slate Gray, Light Graystone, Light Slate Gray, and Deep Jade. As per cloth, the list includes Dark Slate Gray, Light Graystone, and Light Slate Gray. 

For comfort, a passenger or the driver would be able to find an abundance of comfort features inside the Chrysler 300. A passenger is able to feel a personalized control and driver experience. There is an eight way power driver’s seat with an adjustable lumbar support. The same goes for passengers. there also are memory controlled amenities like power adjustable pedals, a power adjustable tilt and telescoping steering column, radio presets, mirrors, driver display options, and a dual zone automatic climate control with infrared sensors among many others. 

Meanwhile, Chrysler 300 accessories and other Chrysler accessories can be purchased even in the comfort of your own home. Dozens of sites offer excellent deals on Chrysler 300 M accessories and add-ons that are definitely hard to miss. One of the best sites to purchase these is Auto Accessories Giant. Aside from accessories for Chrysler 300 vehicles, there also are accessories and products available for other Chrysler models like the 5th Avenue, Cirrus, Concorde, Cordoba, Crossfire, E Class, Fury, Imperial, Laser, LHS, Neon, New Yorker, Pacifica, Prowler, PT Cruiser, Talon, and Town & Country.


