Title: 
Buick Cars - After the Sale

Word Count:
445

Summary:
There is plenty of information about buying new Buick cars and how to shop for the best deal, but what happens after the sale?  What about warranty coverage and recalls?  In this article, the focus turns to the post-sale questions and how to find the answers.


Keywords:
Buick,lacrosse,lucerne,automotive,cars,car,auto,vehicles,review,news


Article Body:
There is plenty of information about buying new Buick cars and how to shop for the best deal, but what happens after the sale?  What about warranty coverage and recalls?  In this article, the focus turns to the post-sale questions and how to find the answers.

As with all new Buick cars, a warranty is offered to the new owner.  It is important to remember, however, that not every repair is covered under warranty.  Problems that are covered under warranty must be repaired at an authorized Buick cars dealership.  The company actually recommends that all repairs, including those under warranty and those that are not, be done at an authorized dealership in order to maintain quality and knowledgeable service.  The best way to find out if the shop is authorized to perform Buick cars warranty repairs is to simply ask.

Now that we know where to have the repairs made, it’s important to know about the warranty coverage period.  When it comes to Buick cars, the warranty period on new automobiles covers four years or 50,000 miles, whichever comes first.  The limited warranty promises to cover only registered vehicles that are located in the United States and Canada.  The coverage period begins on the first day of delivery and provides bumper to bumper coverage on any automobile defect that is proven to be related to workmanship or materials.  The company maintains that any Buick cars dealer will honor the warranty even if it was not purchased from that specific dealer.

Many people believe that only new Buick cars carry a warranty, but that isn’t the case.  Used Buick cars also carry an optional warranty, which is available by purchase.  In other words, used Buick cars are not automatically covered as new models are, but a warranty can be purchased and even financed directly through the dealership.  Known as GM Repair Protection (GMRP), any optional warranty must be purchased at the same time as the vehicle.

At times, certain vehicles may need to be recalled.  Should a recall on any Buick cars occur, customers are to be notified by mail.  In the meantime, however, car owners may call 1-800-422-8425 for recall information.

Whether you are in the market for new or used Buick cars, there are a number of authorized dealerships that offer both.  If you are interested in a new model that has yet to be released, you may ask a local dealer for the release schedule and possibly pre-order one of the new models before they even arrive at the lot.  This advance order system allows customers to confirm a purchase and know that owning their new automobile isn’t far down the road.


