Title: 
Buying Used Cars Tips

Word Count:
419

Summary:
If you planed to buy an used car, it is important not only to find the car you like but you may also need to take some precautions like checking the car history, taking a test drive, knowing its book value or taking an extended warranty.


Keywords:
car, cars, used, used cars, vehicle, auto, automotive, blue book


Article Body:
If you planed to buy an used car, it is important not only to find the car you like but you may also need to take some precautions like checking the car history, taking a test drive, knowing its book value or taking an extended warranty. 

Check the car’s history

An essential factor when car browsing is to learn the car’s history.  This entails finding a reliable source as to whether the automobile has ever been flooded or involved in an automobile accident.  Before agreeing to buy used cars, consumers may obtain a CarFax report at www.carfax.com or by requesting that their local dealer provide a copy.  There is a minimal fee involved in acquiring the report, but the findings are invaluable.  For instance, the number of owners and the title status are both included in a CarFax report.

Take a drive test
				
Generally, used cars buyers will be permitted to take a test drive and also may think about requesting permission to take the automobile to a trusted mechanic for an additional inspection. The best way to confirm that the automobile is in the condition as stated is to take it to a mechanic, who can properly inspect used cars and locate any underlying problems.  Even if most used cars are exactly as stated, when auto safety and any amount of money is involved, there is no room for error in judgment.

Know the car value
							
Before buying any used car, it is important to be familiar with the value of the vehicle.  One way to determine an accurate value is through the use of Kelly Blue Book (www.kbb.com) and their extensive pricing system.  By entering specific information about an automobile, consumers will receive instant value estimates online.  In order to get an accurate value, consumers must know the make and model of the automobile, current mileage, additional features and overall condition.  

Ask for an extended warranty

It may also be possible to purchase an extended warranty when you buy an used car.  Because the original warranty has already expired on most previously owned vehicles, this option is available for the consumer who wants to make sure their purchase is covered.  It is important to realize that the warranty is not automatically included in the sticker.  In fact, the consumer should ask the dealer specifically about purchasing an extended warranty.  More often than not, an extended warranty can be added into the total cost and may even be included in the financing.


