Title: 
Cadillac Means Quality

Word Count:
549

Summary:
One of the vehicles running under the Cadillac name is the Cadillac Escalade. This vehicle is a luxury spin-off of the large Chevrolet/GMC SUVs, and is made available in three trim levels – the base SUV wagon, the longer Escalade ESV wagon, and the Escalade EXT pickup truck.


Keywords:
auto parts,wheels,Cadillac parts


Article Body:
Part of the General Motors Corporation, and produced and mostly sold in the United States, the Cadillac is a brand of luxury automobiles. And in the United States, this brand name of luxury automobiles has become a synonym for “high quality”. Certainly, because of this, it has been used in certain lingo and phrases like “the Cadillac of clocks”. Cadillac was formed from the Henry Ford Company, and the automobile was named after the 17th century French explorer Antoine Laumet de La Mothe, sieur de Cadillac, who was the founder of Detroit, Michigan in 1701. 

One of the vehicles running under the Cadillac name is the Cadillac Escalade. This vehicle is a luxury spin-off of the large Chevrolet/GMC SUVs, and is made available in three trim levels – the base SUV wagon, the longer Escalade ESV wagon, and the Escalade EXT pickup truck. The first two versions are sport utility vehicle wagons that has three rows of seats and can take in a capacity of seven passengers. The Cadillac Escalade EXT, on the other hand is a crew-cab pickup truck that has four doors. It is similar to the Chevrolet Avalanche, has a “midgate” wall between the cab and the cargo bed. 

All the versions of the Cadillac Escalade feature an all-wheel drive and a 6.0 liter V8. The base wagon also comes as a 2WD model. All have automatic transmission, front side airbags, ABS, antiskid/traction control, tire-pressure monitor, and Cadillac’s automatic-adjusting Road Sensing Suspension. Also standard features for all trim levels of the Cadillac Escalade include a trailering package, power-adjustable gas and brake pedals, a rear obstacle detection, and OnStar assistance. The Escalade ESV Platinum Edition includes features like a navigation system, rear DVD entertainment, specific appearance touches, and 20-inch chrome alloy wheels instead of the usual standard 17-inch alloy wheels of the Escalade. 

Acceleration for this vehicle is found to be ample despite occasional transmission delays in full-throttle downshifts. It has towing capacities of 7,400 lbs. for 2WD Escalades, 8,100 lbs. for AWD models, and 7,300 for EXT versions. It has an averaged 13.7-15.6 mpg in city or highway driving. The vehicle could get quite staggering at times. It is also very truck-like. The Cadillac Escalade ESV models have a longer wheelbase that provides a smoother feel on rough roads. As per the vehicle’s steering and handling, it is generally ponderous and has a slow response to steering inputs. It has light and vague steering that demands continuous attention on the highway. Also, it has a rear-leveling suspension that is standard and improves control with a heavy load. The brakes, however, feel soft but have adequate power. It provides a fine isolation from the wind, road, and engine noise. It also offers plenty of head and leg room and a vast shoulder width. Plush seats with fold-down armrests complete the interior. Commanding road view is given to drivers, and added in is a helpful audio/visual rear-obstacle-detection system that warns of the unseen when backing up. 

Auto Parts Discount offers a variety of Cadillac Escalade parts and Cadillac performance products and replacement parts to suit the most demanding needs of Cadillac owners. They can always get the latest information on optimum quality and low-priced <a href="http://www.carpartswholesale.com/cpw/cadillac-car-parts.html"target=_blank"class="navigation">Cadillac parts</a>.


