Title: 
Cadillac DTS: Reviving Cadillac Classics

Word Count:
478

Summary:
2006 Cadillac DTS is a new vehicle from Cadillac is a large luxury sedan that promises to provide an excellent performance, just like its ancestors did. Not only sporting a new interior, the exterior holds such changes as well.


Keywords:
auto parts,Cadillac DTS,Cadillac parts,headlights,floor mats,mirrors


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
The 2006 Cadillac DTS is another addition to the Cadillac brand. Cadillac, which is the brand that is very much associated and connected with luxury, is right on the path of reliving and reviving its products from the past. This new vehicle from Cadillac is a large luxury sedan that promises to provide an excellent performance, just like its ancestors did. It holds the styling that is simply and uniquely a Cadillac’s. It also boasts of a new interior, a much refined chassis tuning, as well as having the new NorthStar 4.6 liter V8 engine. 

Not only sporting a new interior, the exterior holds such changes as well. This vehicle comes with a new front end sheet metal, grille, fascia, and some high intensity xenon headlamps. Added also to the 2006 Cadillac DTS is a new deck lid, a rear quarter, a rear fascia, and the light emitting diode (or LED) tail lamps. It also boasts of vertically shaped headlamps and tail lamps, an egg crate grille, and a dihedral shaped hood. The interior is very much clean and sculpted with a reliving of the past designs and added up with some contemporary refinement details as well. The new additions for the 2006 Cadillac DTS’ interior include dual firmness seats that have been purposely crafted and designed so as to provide comfort and support. There also are available real burl wood garnish, a lowered and more forward positioned instrument panel, spaciousness, a new analog clock, soft back urethane surfaces for the instrument panel and upper doors, and an integrated center stack design. 

As per safety, the 2006 Cadillac DTS holds features that include dual front airbags, front side airbags, curtain side airbags, antilock four wheel disc brakes, a tire pressure monitor, wiper activated headlights, daytime running lights, and an emergency inside trunk release. The comfort and convenience features for this vehicle include the OnStar assistance system, air conditioning with tri-zone automatic controls including controls in the rear, an interior air filter, a power steering, a tilt steering wheel wrapped in leather and holds climate and radio controls, a cruise control, leather upholstery, an eight way power front bucket seats with lumbar adjustment, a center console, cup holders, a trunk pass-through, heated mirrors with turn signals, power windows, power door locks, a remote keyless entry system, a remote engine start, an AM/FM/CD/MP3 player, an analog clock, a tachometer, a trip computer, illuminated front visor mirrors, variable-intermittent wipers, a rear defogger, an automatic day and night rearview mirror, a compass, map lights, automatic headlights, and floor mats. 

Customers and Cadillac owners can search for discount Cadillac DTS parts and Cadillac auto parts from Auto Parts Discount’s secured online store that is available 24 hours a day. The Cadillac parts in Auto Parts Discount’s wide collection are absolutely the lowest prices and made from premium quality materials. 
</p>


