Title: 
Caliber-ated to Replace the Neon

Word Count:
408

Summary:
Now, making its way to the market is the 2007 Dodge Caliber. It is due to come out in the middle of this year. Dodge says that this vehicle is the effective replacement of the bland and monotonous Dodge Neon. The Dodge Caliber has been made to be a bold sport utility vehicle minivan crossover.


Keywords:
auto parts,Dodge,Dodge caliber,Dodge parts,ac compressor,hood


Article Body:
The Dodge Caliber actually started out as a concept car during the 2005 Geneva Motor Show. It has been exquisitely designed so as to fill in the void left by most vehicles. It also is marketed towards no particular target area for it is generally meant for the US market as well as the international market. 

Remarking on the concept vehicle, Trevor Creed, the Chrysler Group’s senior vice president for design, states, “With its bold styling and clever packaging, Caliber is pure Dodge. This concept is a new slant on one of the world’s most competitive segments. The Dodge Caliber concept brings emotion to the C-segment sea of sameness and strongly hints at the future direction of Dodge in the global car market.”

Now, making its way to the market is the 2007 Dodge Caliber. It is due to come out in the middle of this year. Dodge says that this vehicle is the effective replacement of the bland and monotonous Dodge Neon. The Dodge Caliber has been made to be a bold sport utility vehicle minivan crossover. It holds a confident and breezy side glass. Its platform is actually the very same one that the upcoming new generation of Mitsubishi Lancers would be using. Its engine is a gas engine that is from the Mitsubishi and Chrysler joint ventures. This SUV minivan crossover features Chrysler’s first continuously variable transmission, or also known as the CVT. The CVT has been specially designed so as to increase performance and fuel efficiency at the same time. Talk about hitting two birds with one stone. The Dodge Caliber holds five doors. 

Another new thing that the Dodge Caliber will be boasting about will be the electronically controlled all wheel drive system. This also optimizes fuel efficiency. This system works on demand and it drives only the front wheels until power to the rear wheels is actually needed. If you are interested in acquiring your own Dodge Caliber, you may have to start deciding first as to what color you would like the Dodge Caliber to come in. Dodge offers a variety of colors for this new vehicle. These new colors are ultimately something that could make the Dodge Caliber unique and very different from the rest of the machines rolling down the streets. The color choices comprise of stone white, marine blue pearl, steel blue metallic, sunburst orange pearl, solar yellow, black, bright silver metallic, and inferno red crystal pearl.


