Title: 
Campervan Holidays in Cape Town

Word Count:
444

Summary:
Going on a South African Campervan holiday is the ultimate road trip. Travel from Africa's most southern point to the Karoo Desert and beyond. We should all explore such a beautiful country by road.


Keywords:
campervan rental, South Africa, Motorhome hire, Cape Town, car hire, motor rental


Article Body:
Cape Town is vast and beautiful land, rich in indigenous flora, untamed wildlife and a vast array of geographical climates and landscapes.

Whether you’re enjoying the Mediterranean climate of Cape Town’s coastline or wandering through banana plantations in the balmy KwaZulu Natal; exploring bushman paintings in the caves of the Cedarburg or throwing snowballs on the slopes of the Drakesnberg; paddle skiing off the West Coast among dolphins or sleeping under the stars in the semi-arid Karoo, - the land will amaze you with its spectacular diversity.

This is an ideal country to explore at your own pace, as you may wish to linger a day or two longer at one location, or leave other places sooner than you first anticipated. Package tours have their place, but tend to limit you to a region – and someone else’s agenda. Self-drive holidays are a better option, but if you plan on a road trip, overnighting at hotels and other accommodation places en route, you may also find yourself limited or even without a bed for the night if you don’t plan meticulously ahead.

If you’re looking for real, old fashioned adventure - be it on your own, Jack Kerouac-style, with a partner for romance on the road, or a family vacation that will live on in your children’s memories for years, consider a Campervan holiday in South Africa.

There are around 800 registered camp and caravan sites across the country, which allow Campervans or Motorhomes as they are also called to make use of their facilities. You can go all the way from Mpumalanga to Muizenberg with no two nights spent in the same place, or take things slower, driving along the quieter roads such as Rout 62 and stopping along the way to smell the daisies, photograph the sunsets and drink the moer-coffee brewed the way the true South African farmer prefers.

Eat simple, traditional meals over the fire – braai (BBQ) is the number one option for on-the-road mealtimes. Fridges and other kitchen appliances make food preparation a lot simpler than tent camping. However if you feel like sprucing up and enjoying the local cuisine en route, the Campervan is a home-from-home with plenty of room for extra clothing and even an ironing board.

And if the weather turns bad, you can cozy up in your Motorhome and read, play games or simply chat – it’s all so simple.

Why not plan a holiday with a difference – get out the maps and plot your proposed route, but remember, the freedom you’ll have on your South Africa Motorhome holiday means you can change your mind, and your direction, as often as you please.


