Title: 
Car Keys Locked Inside

Word Count:
373

Summary:
Now that you need to use your car to drive back home, you just realized that in your hurry, you forgot to take your car keys with you. And they are just where you left them – inside your car. You may not be a locksmith, but if you own a car that has been created before the 1980s or if you may have left a window of your car slightly open, you may have just the slightest chance of opening the car yourself.


Keywords:
auto parts,Pontiac,Pontiac auto parts,Pontiac accessories


Article Body:
While backing out of your garage or even just your driveway this morning, you surely managed to leave some scratches on your car. Not only that but after a couple of miles, you seemed to have ran out of gas. Luckily, you were near a gasoline station and were able to fill up your fuel tank. 

However, it seems luck has fled from your side for the day. After filling up, you were able to drive for some distance when a tire of your car went flat. Of course, you had to change the tire yourself. And while you were at it, you noticed that the hubcap you purchased along with some Pontiac auto parts seemed to have fallen somewhere between your current location and your garage. Because you were already late for your work, you hurriedly grabbed your things and rushed out to catch the elevator. 

Tough luck. Now that you need to use your car to drive back home, you just realized that in your hurry, you forgot to take your car keys with you. And they are just where you left them – inside your car. You may not be a locksmith, but if you own a car that has been created before the 1980s or if you may have left a window of your car slightly open, you may have just the slightest chance of opening the car yourself. 

You do need a wire hanger to do this challenge. Straighten the hanger out and then bend an end. Make sure you form a hook or even a triangular handle. This would serve as the extension of your hand in breaking into your own car. You can also try opening a window through prying. Just use a putty knife and slip it between the window and the door. 

When you have part of the window open, slip the wire hanger you bent through it. Your task would be to actually move the hanger through your car and try to pull the door lock open. This may be quite difficult but it can be achieved.

Now, if you own a newer car model, well, the best move for you would be to actually call a locksmith and let him do the work.


