Title: 
Car Lemon Laws - You Don't Have To Live With A Sour Deal

Word Count:
572

Summary:
United States car lemon laws were enacted to protect consumers against buying defective, unrepairable vehicles. The major automobile manufacturers mass-produce their products, and generally the quality control is very good. However, when you connect more than a few parts together, you have a chance for a lemon.

What is a lemon car? A lemon or lemon car is an automobile that has a defect that cannot be repaired by the consumer after a reasonable number of attempts. Alternat...


Keywords:
lemon,law,laws,state,vehicle,car,cars,defect,defective,tips,help,advice


Article Body:
United States car lemon laws were enacted to protect consumers against buying defective, unrepairable vehicles. The major automobile manufacturers mass-produce their products, and generally the quality control is very good. However, when you connect more than a few parts together, you have a chance for a lemon.

What is a lemon car? A lemon or lemon car is an automobile that has a defect that cannot be repaired by the consumer after a reasonable number of attempts. Alternately, if the car has been in a repair garage for 30 calendar days or more for repairs on the same defect, it may also be classified as a lemon car. The term can also apply to a vehicle in which the defect negatively affects the value and safety of the vehicle. Car lemon laws vary by state, so you should consult your own state laws to determine the exact definition that applies to you.

Why is a terminally defective car called a lemon? One can only speculate why the name of a tart yellow citrus fruit came to be associated with defective cars. Lemons are very sour in taste, and traditionally sour tastes have been associated with bad luck. If something negative happens to a person, he or she might say, "It left a sour taste in my mouth." A salesperson whose big deal falls through might say, "The deal went sour." It seems plausible that the sour taste of the lemon, with its negative connotations, was used to coin the phrase "lemon car" to describe a car purchase gone sour.

Why were lemon laws needed to protect car consumers? Look at the general definitions of lemon cars shown above. Some quick math will show that a lemon car can be an extreme financial hardship. The last time you picked up your car from the repair garage, were you happy with the bill, or were you dreading it? A car with four to six (or more) attempted repairs, with all the parts and labor charges, can easily add up to thousands of dollars. If your car is stuck in a repair garage for 30 days or more, with the mechanics billing hour after hour of labor, the bill might approach the price of the car itself!

If your car meets your state's lemon car criteria, you have the right to seek a refund or replacement from the car manufacturer (not the dealer from which you bought it). You are probably entitled to be reimbursed for related costs such as towing, rental cars, and maybe even long distance calls to the manufacturer. Be absolutely sure to keep all bills and invoices related to your attempts to get your car repaired.

If you decide to proceed with a lemon law claim against the manufacturer, it is beneficial to consult with a lawyer that specializes in lemon law cases. A lawyer can help make the stressful process go more smoothly. No doubt are already stressed enough over your lemon car.

Some states have passed lemon laws to protect consumers against defective purchases of boats and even pets. Regardless of the origin of the term, lemon laws are here to protect you. The car manufacturers can hire teams of expensive lawyers, and they know you can't. Car lemon laws help to level the playing field in your favor.

If the guys at the car repair shop know you by your first name, you should consider the lemon law tips below.


