Title: 
Car Mats

Word Count:
463

Summary:
It has been a while since cars have been considered as a luxury. Even exotic cars like the sports models can be seen cruising on the roads with increasing frequency. Even though affording a car might be easy with all the easy pay installments and other schemes that the manufacturers in today’s market are coming up with, the owners still have to spend a lot in addition to the price of the car. Showroom prices for the cars usually do not include all the fittings such as the guards, interior seat covers, car mats, cargo liners, floor shields, and other such interior protection items. A car wash can get the car to look squeaky clean, but keeping the interiors sparkling and neat also matters.


Keywords:
car mats, car seat mats, clear car mats, custom car mats


Article Body:
It has been a while since cars have been considered as a luxury. Even exotic cars like the sports models can be seen cruising on the roads with increasing frequency. Even though affording a car might be easy with all the easy pay installments and other schemes that the manufacturers in today’s market are coming up with, the owners still have to spend a lot in addition to the price of the car. Showroom prices for the cars usually do not include all the fittings such as the guards, interior seat covers, car mats, cargo liners, floor shields, and other such interior protection items. A car wash can get the car to look squeaky clean, but keeping the interiors sparkling and neat also matters.

Car mats are one interior furnishing used in all the cars, be they decorative and luxurious or everyday. But basically all kinds of car mats serve the same purpose.  Car mats are used so that the car floor does not get dirty with use - the car may be used in all kinds of weather. Without these, slush, mud and dirt can permanently spoil the floor. Car mats are an easy way out as they are removable and can be cleaned easily.

Car mats come in a variety of materials, the most common being the rubberized ones. These are made of heavy-duty rubber and have a good grip at the bottom. They fit the car interior perfectly to avoid discomfort while driving. Since most of them are anti-skid, there would no chance of them slipping from under the driver’s seat. Also, they are lined or sculpted on the top to trap the dirt, water and slush so it does not slip into the car flooring.

If you have a luxurious car such as the BMW, Mercedes or Alfa Romeo, you can go for a custom designed car mat made of materials such as sheepskin and leather; you can even have different piping for that special look. These would be available in a wide range of colors and are just as durable as the rubber mats. A custom fit would give an exotic and expensive look to the car interior.

Car mats are very useful, particularly during rain and in dusty places. They can conveniently be removed and dusted at one’s convenience. It is good practice to get the car mat cleaned frequently to prevent the grooves getting filled up with mud, and to thus make sure it serves its purpose. Since rubber car mats are quite affordable compared to getting the carpet flooring cleaned often, it is now a common practice to get the car fitted with a car mat.

Car mats serve an important protective function in your car, especially for your more treasured, expensive models.


