Title: 
Cars: The Used And The New Are Beautiful

Word Count:
438

Summary:
Whether buying used or new cars, both options have advantages and disadvantages that the car buyer alone would be the best person to be knowledgeable about as he or she would know what would work well as according to his/her needs, wants, preference, budget and whim. 

The following are basic factors to consider in buying a used or a new car: 

The price.

Those on a stringent budget would find used cars a good deal. Though there are a handful of new cars that sell for ...


Keywords:
car, auto, automobile, vehicle


Article Body:
Whether buying used or new cars, both options have advantages and disadvantages that the car buyer alone would be the best person to be knowledgeable about as he or she would know what would work well as according to his/her needs, wants, preference, budget and whim. 

The following are basic factors to consider in buying a used or a new car: 

The price.

Those on a stringent budget would find used cars a good deal. Though there are a handful of new cars that sell for less than ten thousand dollars, the ones that cost less usually have only a few amenities, with some having none of the following: air-conditioning, stereo. Sometimes the cars come with only two doors or one of the power windows is broken, if there are power windows at all. On the other hand, the availability of three to four-year old used cars loaded with more than the bare-boned features of a basic used car – such as a CD player, air conditioning, airbags – gives the used car buyer a great deal. 
 
But still, the pricey new cars are costly because of the updated safety features they carry: de-powered airbags as well as “smart” front and side protection airbags. New vehicles also carry whimsical features such as: beverage holders that keep drinks cool or hot.

The choice depends on you, your priorities and your purchasing power.

The warranty.

New vehicles usually are under warranty for a minimum of three years to a maximum of ten. Hyundai and Kia provide ten year warranty for their vehicles. DaimlerChrysler offers a seven year warranty for their Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep models. So does Isuzu. 

Some eligible late-model used cars could complete their original warranty and could just as well be extended if they are protected by the vehicle certification program. If not, used car owners could shell out a few hundred to be able to extend their service warranty or contract.

The mileage.

Newly-bought used cars come with mileage already spent. New vehicles basically do not need maintenance for the first thousands of miles, and if they do, car manufacturers cover the oil change and their tune-up as well as other fundamental maintenance services. 

Specially made cars

Used car buyers usually have to content themselves with as-is vehicles whose color may not be that perfect shade of red, green or blue. Buyers of new cars however, have the option of a varied range of colors or car features that used cars have not. Car dealers usually cater to the tastes and impulse of a car buyer and usually would even satisfy a customer by specially-ordering a vehicle.


