Title: 
Catching the Jaguar XJR

Word Count:
494

Summary:
When Jaguar is mentioned, the very first thing that could possibly enter your mind would be prestige, power, elegance, and design. Aside from that, it also brings about grace and style. And one of the Jaguar vehicles that incorporate all these characteristics would be the Jaguar XJR.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar XJR parts,body parts,cooling system parts,service tools


Article Body:
When Jaguar is mentioned, the very first thing that could possibly enter your mind would be prestige, power, elegance, and design. Aside from that, it also brings about grace and style. And one of the Jaguar vehicles that incorporate all these characteristics would be the Jaguar XJR. 

The latest updates done on the Jaguar XJR make it larger. It had added some 2.6 inches in length, 2.4 inches of width, and a significant 4.3 inches of height. It has shorter overhangs as well as a lesser steepness for its windscreen. To add to the joy of Jaguar XJR owners and users, the new one also holds more passenger space as well as cargo and luggage space which has gained a 30 per cent increase. It boasts of an aluminum body that is very much delightfully stiff. With the aluminum body, this makes the Jaguar XJR a lot less lighter. In fact, it has lost 440 pounds. 

That only was the skin part of the Jaguar XJR. If a person looks closer and delves deeper, one would be able to find out that beneath the skin is a very capable machine that is responsible for the unstoppable power of the Jaguar XJR. This vehicle from Jaguar holds a 400 horsepower 4.2 liter V8 engine that is supercharged. It is hooked up to a six speed automatic transmission that is ZF-sourced. This transmission was actually first introduced and used in the Jaguar S Type. Made standard for this vehicle is a self-leveling air suspension, as well as the Jaguar’s Computer Active Technology Suspension (or CATS) system, the Dynamic Stability Control system, the Adaptive Cruise Control with Forward Alert system, and the Adaptive Restraint Technology System (or commonly known as ARTS). The engine of the Jaguar XJR is perfectly smooth as well as quiet, alive, and robust. It also provides a very quick and speedy performance. It is also very supple, agile and flexible so much so that the driver of the Jaguar XJR feels the control he has. 

As per the cabin and interior of the Jaguar XJR, it is very richly designed and dressed up with leather, wood, and bright work. Ergonomically configured so as to give drivers and occupants an easy time inside are the controls. The navigation system has a clear interface and a very classy presentation. So as to give occupants much more comfort are eight cup and drink holders. 

Meanwhile, owners and enthusiasts of the Jaguar XJR and Jaguar vehicles could purchase Jaguar parts and accessories in the very comfort of their own homes. There are dozens of sites that offer excellent deals on Jaguar auto parts that are definitely hard to miss. One of the best sites from where customers can purchase quality and durable Jaguar parts is Jaguar Parts and Jaguar Auto Parts. It holds one of the largest collections of parts and accessories for Jaguar vehicles. Their collection includes accessories, body parts, brakes, service tools, drive belts, and cooling system parts among many others.


