Title: 
Check If Your Car’s Brakes Do Not Work

Word Count:
306

Summary:
Brakes are among the essential components of your car. Even if your car brakes do not work, your car may still run. However, how can you make your car stop or slow down when you want to if your car brakes do not work? A car which has brakes that do not work would be much more likely involved in car crashes, collisions, and other vehicular accidents.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lincoln,Lincoln accessories,Lexus,Lexus accessories,Lexus parts,Lincoln parts,brakes


Article Body:
Brakes are among the essential components of your car. Even if your car brakes do not work, your car may still run. Yes, that may be true. However, how can you make your car stop or slow down when you want to if your car brakes do not work? A car which has brakes that do not work would be much more likely involved in car crashes, collisions, and other vehicular accidents. 

That is why it is very important for you to check your brakes. That way, if you are indeed sure that they are not working properly, then it is time to do the right thing: bring your car to a mechanic to fix the problem. 

First off, check the brake fluid. While you do this, check if the brake light is on. If it is going well, then proceed to the next step which is knowing the sounds that you can hear when the brake pedal is depressed. 

Worn out brake pads emit some sounds when you depress and push on the brakes. These sounds include a scraping sound that is high pitched. Or you may even think that it could be a squealing kind of noise. However, these sounds can be only heard if your brake pads have sensors that check out wear attached to it. Otherwise, these sounds are not noticeable at all. 

What you should be vigilant about is a noise that is like a grinding sound or something that sounds like metal pushing or moving against metal. If this is something that you hear, rush to the mechanic and have the brakes checked out. This just simply means that your brake pads have already given up and there is none left to protect your brakes. This could also mean that you may be damaging other essential parts of your car.


