Title: 
Checks Carried Out By Rental Companies

Word Count:
638

Summary:
When you go to hire or rent any car you will find that it would have gone through a thorough check .the rental company will have a check list of the car or van which you are about to rent. I have compiled a list of checks which the rental company will go through before and after the car van or truck is rented. When you collect the car van or truck it would have had a valet and would generally be in very good condition .Most vehicles are less than a year old.


Keywords:
Minibus rental in Leicester,Minibus rental Leicester,Minibus hire in Leicester,Minibus hire Leicester,Luton van hire Leicester,Luton van rental Leicester,Luton van hire in Leicester,Luton van rental in Leicester.,


Article Body:
Checks Carried Out By Rental Companies
 
When you go to hire or rent any car you will find that it would have gone through a thorough check .the rental company will have a check list of the car or van which you are about to rent. I have compiled a list of checks which the rental company will go through before and after the car van or truck is rented. When you collect the car van or truck it would have had a valet and would generally be in very good condition .Most vehicles are less than a year old.

Exterior checks 

Front windscreen
Rear windscreen
Windows this would include all fixed and door windows
Drivers Headlamp
Passenger Headlamp
Driver side indicator
Passenger side indicator
Also any indicators which may be fitted to the vehicle as this may vary 
Driver’s side tail lamp
Passenger side tail lamp
Driver door mirror
Passenger door mirror
Front grille
Roof
Boot lid
Bonnet
Ariel
All doors
Front bumper
Rear bumper
Driver side tyre
Driver side rear tyre
Passenger front tyre
Passenger side rear tyre
Spare tyre 
Drivers side front wheel trim or alloy
Driver side rear wheel trim or alloy 
Passenger side front wheel trim or alloy
Passenger side rear wheel trim or alloy

Interior Items Checked
Radio or CD player
Carpets
Headlining
Boot carpets
Floor mats
Parcel shelf if fitted
Driver side door trim or panel front
Driver’s side door trim or panel rear
Passenger side door trim or panel front
Passenger side door trim or panel rear
Driver’s seat
Passenger seat
Rear seat
Dashboard
Tool kit and car jack
Drivers hand book 
Also any attachments such as cup holders or satellite navigation systems.


Once you have been shown the car that you are about to rent it is strongly adviseble to check the vehicle yourself for any defects and to point them out to the sales person. Always ask the advisor to write down any points which you have found this way you can dispute any damage at a later date. 
As most of the check lists are very much standard it is not very often any items are missed.



The assistant will also tell you about the type of fuel that the vehicle that you are renting uses this may either be petrol or diesel. Be sure not to fill up with the wrong type of fuel. When you open the fuel flap you will be reminded also what fuel to use.

Some rental companies supply cars with a full tank of fuel this can be very handy because you may be in a hurry to get on with your journey. But always remember to return the car van or truck with a full tank of fuel also. The reason why is because the hire company may charge you additional prices compared to high street prices.

When booking you may request a car which is automatic or manual transmission , this usually depends on the type of car that have , most prestigious cars have automatic transmission compared to the small to medium cars.

Customers should also ask about the level of insurance that is covered when they rent .in many cases the insurance will not cover for missing wheel trims or damaged alloys petrol caps, tools, or the spare wheel, it may not cover electric aerial damage, glass or tyres. Generally it will not cover accidental damage or negligent damage. You will always be charged for cigarette burns.

One more thing to mention is to return you car truck or van in a clean condition, you may get charged to valet the returned car if it is found to be excessively dirty the price of cleaning can vary. Once it has been fully cleaned it will be inspected again and any damage will be charged to you.


