Title: 
Checking Your Car’s Tire Pressure

Word Count:
326

Summary:
Your car’s tires should have just the right amount of pressure. This may not seem to be a big deal, however, remember that your tires hold a great deal of importance when it comes to your car’s performance.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jeep,Jeep Wrangler accessories,Jeep Grand Cherokee accessories,Jeep accessories


Article Body:
Your car’s tires should have just the right amount of pressure. This may not seem to be a big deal, however, remember that your tires hold a great deal of importance when it comes to your car’s performance. 

According to automobile experts, your car’s tires should have the right amount of pressure because these serve as the medium between you, your car, and the open road. If you do have underinflated or overinflated tires, you would be experiencing much too many rattles and shakes as you drive your way through various types of roads. Also, tires that are not inflated properly give you a more bumpy ride. They also tend to wear down quickly compared to tires that are inflated just right. 

Another fact about tires is that when they are overinflated or underinflated, they actually make your car use up much gas. Compared to having a car with tires inflated just right, your car makes use of just the right amount of gas. It even saves you much on your hard-earned dollar for you would not have to spend more on the very high-priced fuel. 

To check the your tires’ pressure, make sure that you do it when your tires have already cooled down. Keep in mind that tires get more inflated when warm for the air inside expands. Then, you should first remove the cap from the valve on the tire that you are checking. Put in and press a tire gauge hard into the valve and take a look at the given reading. You would know if you have inserted the gauge properly if you hear the sound of escaping air. 

Then, if you notice that the tire needs more pressure, fill it up. On the other hand, if your car has had just too much pressure, then release the air. You would know the right and recommended air pressure of your tires by checking your car owner’s manual.


