Title: 
Check That Used Car

Word Count:
556

Summary:
A new car may not be worth all that money you are planning on spending! 

If you are on a really tight budget, and don’t care too much about the prestige of having a brand new car, purchasing a used car might be the best option for you. Why do we say that might be the better option?

All you have to do is pick up a used car listing to see that brand new cars lose anywhere from 30 to 40 percent of their original price in as little as two years. That’s a pretty steep number...


Keywords:
car, auto, automobile, vehicle


Article Body:
A new car may not be worth all that money you are planning on spending! 

If you are on a really tight budget, and don’t care too much about the prestige of having a brand new car, purchasing a used car might be the best option for you. Why do we say that might be the better option?

All you have to do is pick up a used car listing to see that brand new cars lose anywhere from 30 to 40 percent of their original price in as little as two years. That’s a pretty steep number. Here’s another number, 65 percent – this is the amount you save if you buy a used car that is five years old instead of a brand new one. 

Theoretically speaking cars of this age, as long as they have been well cared for will perform just as well and are just as reliable as their brand new counterparts. In fact, they may even be better customized for daily use since it has already been broken in and properly set up. 

Of course, you cannot discount the possibility that the used car you are looking at is not in the best of conditions. Therefore when surveying used cars to purchase consult the following tips.

1. Check the Exterior

The first thing to look at is the overall condition of the car’s body and finish. Look out for paint blotches and poor body fit. Also look for body filler. You may want to use a simple magnet to help you pinpoint suspicious spots. Finding any of these is evidence of a previous car collision. 

Also look out if the car is newly painted. You may want to inquire why this is so. It may mean a major overhaul due to some extensive damage. Rust is a bad sign of body damage, so is dampness in the trunk. 

2. Check Suspension

Go to each corner of the car and push down on them. If the car bounces more than once, you may need to have shocks installed. 

Try nudging or pulling the wheels from beside the car. If the wheels can be nudged, or if they move in or out, there could be serious damage to the CV joints or the bearings.

If tire wear is uneven, this is indicative of bad suspension. If the car you are checking has new tires, you will have to exercise more caution and test the suspension thoroughly.
 
3. Check the Insides of the Car

Make sure the upholstery, odor, and condition of the car’s interior are acceptable and in line with the age of the car.

4. Take It for a Spin

Have a friend observe you while you take the car for test drive. The car should be stable and should not show signs of shifting from side to side. If so, there could be a major problem with the frame or suspension. If you can, have a mechanic look at it too.

The internet has changed the way everyone does business. Businesses have begun to explore how the internet can facilitate better, faster and more convenient operations. This has resulted in businesses that offer anything online - from selling clothes and shoes, to ordering pizza online and even searching for available realty. Believe it or not, you can even search for used cars online too.


