Title: 
Chevrolet Astro Van: Made Especially For Cargo

Word Count:
470

Summary:
A passenger mini van, the 2005 Chevrolet Astro Cargo Van holds three doors. Yet, it only has a maximum passenger capacity of two people. The rest of the space is made essentially for cargo and packages. It has been constructed so as to be able to transport and delivery these to other locations.


Keywords:
auto parts,Chevrolet,Chevrolet Astro Van,Chevrolet accessories


Article Body:
A passenger mini van, the 2005 Chevrolet Astro Cargo Van holds three doors. Yet, it only has a maximum passenger capacity of two people. The rest of the space is made essentially for cargo and packages. It has been constructed so as to be able to transport and delivery these to other locations. Aside from that, this vehicle also has been made available in two trim levels which comprise of the Rear Wheel Drive and the All Wheel Drive. 2005 is the last year of production and manufacturing for this vehicle. 
	
Upon introduction of this vehicle, the Rear Wheel Drive trim level has been made available equipped with a standard 4.3 liter V6 engine. It can actually produce some 190 units of horsepower engine. With that, it can achieve 16 mpg for city driving and some 21 mpg for highway travails. As per the All Wheel Drive trim level, this came equipped with a standard 4.3 liter V6 engine. It has the capacity and capability to produce some 190 units of horsepower that enables this vehicle to take up 15 mpg for city driving and 19 mpg on the highway. Made standard for both trim levels, the Chevrolet Astro Cargo Van has a four speed automatic transmission system with overdrive. 

Although the Chevrolet Astro Cargo Van may lack standard child seat tethers, side air bags, and traction control, people are still opting to own this for great advantages like the anti lock braking system, air conditioning, an alarm, an automatic transmission system, child safety locks, power windows and locks, and side impact door beams. Along with that, in its own category, the Chevrolet Astro Van actually has a good highway mileage as well as a base list price below average making this vehicle a good buy. 

The Chevrolet Astro Van has a 4.3 liter engine with six cylinders. It can actually produce some 190 units of horsepower. It has a wheelbase that measures 111.2 inches, an overall length of 189.8 inches, a weight of 5600 pounds, and a payload capacity of 1647. Aside from that it can tow up to a maximum of 2404 pounds. 

Shopping for Chevrolet accessories has become easier. That is because Auto Accessories Giant has come up with an online store that is available 24 hours a day. By visiting the online store, one can find out and discover why this store’s collection of Chevrolet accessories is top notch. The store has accessories for various Chevrolet vehicles like the Astro Van, Avalanche, Aveo, Beretta, Blazer, Camaro, Caprice, Cavalier, Celebrity, Chevelle, Citation, Colorado, Commodore, Corsica, Corvette, El Camino, Equinox, Express Full Size Van, Impala, Lumina, LUV, Malibu, Metro, Monte Carlo, Monza, Nova, Pickup Full Size, Prizm, S10, Savannah, Spectrum, Sprint, Tahoe, Town and Country, Tracker, Trailblazer, Traverse, Van Full Size, and Venture among many others. At present, Auto Accessories Giant country’s largest supplier of discount priced high performance and heavy duty Chevrolet parts.


