Title: 
Chevy Astro: Not Flashy But Practical

Word Count:
423

Summary:
Chevy Astro is a truck-based minivan but it is not as flashy as the rest of the brands in its own segment. The Chevy Astro comes to basically serve its purpose, and that is to transport and delivery cargo and passengers. This function is done with the utmost care and safety and also provides total and great convenience.


Keywords:
auto parts,Chevy,Chevy Astro,Chevy parts,Chevy accessories


Article Body:
Offered in three trim levels which comprise of the base, the LS, and the LT, the Chevy Astro is a truck-based minivan however it is not as flashy as the rest of the brands in its own segment. Yes, it does not boast of flashy gadgets and high technology features. However, amidst everything, the Chevy Astro comes to basically serve its purpose, and that is to transport and delivery cargo and passengers. This function is done with the utmost care and safety and also provides total and great convenience. In a nutshell, this vehicle offers stability, safety and durability since its introduction back in the late 1980s. 

Taking a look at the Chevy Astro’s interior, this vehicle boasts a cabin that can take a maximum of eight passengers. It has two front buckets seats. The rear part of the vehicle has two rear benches that could seat three people. The second row buckets seats are optional, though. Just like most vehicles nowadays, the rear seats could be removed or folded down. By doing such, the cargo space is enhanced and enlarged to come up to 170 cubic feet. 

For the latest model of the Chevy Astro, the vehicle sports 16 inch wheels and tires. As for people looking from the outside, the Chevy Astro sports a sliding door in its passenger side. The power of this vehicle comes from its 4.3 liter V6 engine that can produce some 190 units of horsepower at 4400 rpm and 250 pound feet of torque. This engine uses a multi-port fuel injection and gets some help from a four speed automatic transmission system with overdrive. The Chevy Astro also comes available with either a rear wheel drive or all wheel drive. This vehicle also has been equipped with anti lock four wheel brakes that work greatly with a highly responsive Hydroboost hydraulic assist power brake booster as well as GM’s Dynamic Rear Proportioning. 

This vehicle comes with features and options that include air conditioning, an all wheel drive, an AM/FM stereo, a cassette player, a CD player, rear audio controls, a digital clock, daytime running lamps with automatic exterior lamp control, driver and right front passenger frontal air bags, special cloth seating, a six way power driver seat, a HomeLink transmitter, an independent front suspension system, the LATCH system, a luggage rack, an overhead console with storage compartments, power door locks, power windows, power outside rearview mirrors, a rear Dutch door, a remote keyless entry system, a Vortec 4300 V6 engine, a cruise control system, and a tilt wheel steering column.


