Title: 
choose Luxury Cars and best car Quotes

Word Count:
309

Summary:
Determining exactly what constitutes a luxury car gets tricky because the criteria seem to vary. For example, you may define it according to a certain price range or manufacturer, or the technological and comfort features a vehicle offers. Nowadays there are also more than just cars to consider…luxury now abounds in many SUVs, wagons, compacts, and even pick-up trucks.


Keywords:
Luxury Car Quotes, Free Luxury Car Quote, Luxury Cars, New Car Quotes, 24 Hour Car Quote.


Article Body:
Determining exactly what constitutes a luxury car gets tricky because the criteria seem to vary. For example, you may define it according to a certain price range or manufacturer, or the technological and comfort features a vehicle offers. Nowadays there are also more than just cars to consider…luxury now abounds in many SUVs, wagons, compacts, and even pick-up trucks.


Remember the old saying, "beauty is in the eye of the beholder"? Luxury varies by individual, so let's define a luxury car as one that offers the most in the way of convenience, creature comforts, and drivability to a specific driver. Entry-level luxury cars can cost in the neighborhood of $35,000 to $40,000.


This category attracts people who want the prestige that comes from driving vehicles made by automobile makers known for high quality. Examples include Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Cadillac, and Lincoln, to name just a few. Some manufacturers not generally considered producers of luxury cars also make high-end models with enough bells and whistles to be considered luxurious.


In any event, comfort, convenience, and great engineering in varying degrees ultimately determine luxury. Things such as quality leather seats, thick, lush carpeting, real wood trim, quiet, stabilized ride, a solid build, and a smoothly purring engine with enough power to never be sluggish constitute luxury for most drivers. In this age of technology, each year brings a new tool, and now we can navigate by watching an in-dash screen, listen to incredible sound systems that completely surround us in the car; and even let our cars parallel park themselves. Even more importantly - safety features continue to evolve as well.


24 Hour Car Quote is the Guaranteed free service that has helped people get into the car of their dreams and can help you too! Get your 100% Free Car Quote(http://www.24hourcarquote.com/) from the closest authorized dealer in your area within 24 hours.


