Title: 
Choosing A Car Dealership

Word Count:
344

Summary:
The Internet isn't just a good way to research cars before you buy. It can also help steer you toward a reputable car dealer.


Keywords:
Choosing A Car Dealership


Article Body:
The Internet isn't just a good way to research cars before you buy. It can also help steer you toward a reputable car dealer. When searching the Web for a car dealer, keep a few expert tips in mind: 

&#8226; Inventory-Are you interested in a reliable used vehicle and don't mind a lot of miles or are you in the market for an environmentally savvy hybrid? Do you prefer domestics or imports? You may be interested in a specific make or model, or may want a dealership with a variety of different types of cars. 

&#8226; Financing-Many dealerships provide special-rate or low-credit financing. Be sure to think about how much of a down payment you can make or what monthly payment best fits your budget. 

&#8226; Communication-If you'd like to conduct business in a language other than English, you can research the languages spoken at dealerships. Buying a car is a big investment, and understanding everything about the vehicle you are interested in purchasing is very important. 

&#8226; Services-Different dealerships offer different services. Hate waiting? Search for a dealership with a courtesy shuttle or loaner cars. Need bodywork? Find a dealer that also has a body shop. 

&#8226; Amenities-Think ahead about what a dealer offers after your initial car purchase. If you bring your children with you while you wait for your car to be serviced, find a dealer that offers a children's play area. If it's important to get work completed or catch up on the news, find a dealer that offers Internet access. 

Finding Dealers

You can use sites such as AutoTrader.com to quickly find dealerships that match your preferences. Enter a zip code and list specific dealer services in the Find Your Dealer tool found on the homepage. Check off the services you are seeking, and within seconds dealerships that are multilingual, offer manufacturer rebates and incentives, provide handicap accessibility, offer Internet access and more will all be displayed. With one more click, you reach a Dealer Information Page giving you more details, such as specials, contact information, directions, and a picture of the dealership.


