Title: 
Choosing an Exhaust System

Word Count:
749

Summary:
Exhaust systems are the topic of this article in which readers learn on the different types of exhaust systems, and help them choose the best aftermarket performance exhaust system for their vehicle.


Keywords:
Gibson exhaust, performance exhaust systems


Article Body:
Gibson Performance Exhaust systems are manufactured in gas and diesel applications for cars, trucks and sport utility vehicles with a limited lifetime warranty and will not effect factory warranties. With options such as aluminized or stainless steel and five different exhaust exits, there is no going wrong with Gibson’s line of performance cat-back systems. You will certainly find what you are looking for in this line with the style, torque, tone and brilliant engineering, whether your vehicle is for work or for play. The performance and durability of these parts are also quite impressive. Almost all of the parts come zinc-plated with heavy-duty stainless steel clamps and offer the maximum exhaust flow for the most efficient exhaust and have three to four- inch tailpipes. 
The Gibson Side Swept Exhaust will provide a quick acceleration and the best towing power. Hill-climbing is at its easiest with a low-end horsepower gain and at the same time you’ll have a quiet in-cab, low tone. Exit is behind the rear tire near stock, and the mandrel- bent tubing keeps exhaust flow constant for maximum performance. This side-swept exhaust comes with a T-304 high polished stainless steel clamp-less slash tip and zinc plated 3/8 to ½ inch factory style hangers, heavy-duty clamps, and stainless steel- 409L Stainless heavy -duty tubing, as do most of the exhausts. 
The Gibson Dual Cat-back Exhaust horsepower gains are 10-15 and 15-20lb-ft of increase torque and will result in better fuel efficiency. Some of the best qualities of this exhaust system are the easy bolt-on installation, a great look and a decrease in the negative exhaust damage to your tow trailer. It will provide the same great exhaust flow and come zinc-plated as mentioned above, but it adds on a Superflow TM Muffler that is fully welded, baffled and chambered for better volume efficiency.
With the Split Rear Bolt-on Cat-back Exhaust there is an increase in horsepower and torque as a result of decreased backpressure. It will work on most bumpers but with some vehicles you might need to remove the spare tire, and it is not suggested for towing because of carbon monoxide issues. The best qualities of this are the improved horsepower (average gain of 15-20) and the aggressive sound. 

An alternative to the Split Rear Bolt- on Cat-back is the Gibson Extreme Dual Bolt-on Cat-back. This exhaust is great for looks (dual exits behind the rear wheels at an angle) and even better for performance. Your towing, passing, and accelerating abilities will skyrocket. 

The Gibson Super Truck Exhaust is fast, powerful, and loud. There are definite dyno-tested gains in horsepower, torque, and fuel efficiency and noise levels hit 95 decibels. 

The point of a diesel exhaust is to decrease backpressure, lower temperatures and provide power. With Gibson’s Diesel Single Side Exit Exhaust you will get just that. This heavy-duty exhaust provides a dyno-tested increase as much as 32 horsepower and, in addition, 60 ft-lbs in torque. This comes with a four-inch Mandrel-bent tailpipe allowing maximum flow and performance. If you want this in a dual exhaust it is available with a three-inch tailpipe and rear-wheel exits at an angle. This is the Gibson Diesel Extreme Dual Exhaust. 

Another good option to the Dual Diesel Extreme is the Diesel Dual Sport Exhaust. Gibson manufactured this one for a great look, a 30 ft-lbs torque increase, and an awesome sound. This comes in the large three-inch Mandrel-bent tailpipe with the Superflow TM Muffler. The Dual Sport also provides a 15 horsepower increase. 

Gibson’s line of American Muscle car exhausts can be used on V6 and V8 Dodge Chargers, Ford Mustangs, and GTO’s. They come with T-304 high-polished stainless steel clamp-less slash tips and muffler and, as always, will provide increased torque and horsepower and overall better performance of your vehicle. All zinc-plated, produce a great rumble, and easy to install.

Last but not least, Gibson has great Performance Headers. Each one is Dyno-tuned for street and off-road vehicles, raised or lowered, and they cool engine temperatures in extreme off-roading, racing, or highway speeds.  One of the best qualities is that you can use the stock crossover pipe and drop the headers in as exact replacements of factory manifolds. Great features of Gibson headers include: 50 state street legal, OEM style connections, laser cut port flanges, air injection and oxygen sensor fittings, and the fact that there is no need for welding as they are completely bolt-on. They come in nickel chrome plated (very durable), stainless steel or ceramic coated with high-temperature polished coating.


