Title: 
Chrysler Firepower: A Vette Fighter Extraordinaire

Word Count:
325

Summary:
First the Dodge Viper, now the Chrysler Firepower. Has DCX lost its  mind? We can only hope that they have!


Keywords:
Dodge Viper, Chrysler Firepower, Chevy Corvette, Plymouth, BMW, Mercedes, DaimlerChrysler, Jeep, GM


Article Body:
Chrysler is toying around with the idea of building a vehicle that will go where no Chrysler moniker has gone before it: on the raceway. Sure, there have been stock Newports and Cordobas that have been raced, but nothing that was “pure race material” has ever worn a Chrysler label. Dodge yes, but Chrysler no. That may all change if the Firepower is built. Read on and let’s see what this hot looking car is all about.

The U.S. auto shows throughout 2005 featured a number of great looking concepts. One of the vehicles, a Chrysler Firepower, drew strong interest from visitors. Based on this consumer interest, the Firepower may go from concept to developing project if several DaimlerChrysler officials have their way.

Borrowing heavily from the Dodge Viper sport car, the Firepower concept has the Corvette in its crosshairs.  In fact, the Firepower is likely to be a more luxurious version of the Viper, borrowing its engine, transmission, and entire platform. As you know, the Viper also competes with the Corvette.

Depending on which schematics Chrysler decides to go with, the body itself may only be slightly different from the Viper. However, the concept car clearly shows that the Firepower has its own skin, so it remains to be seen what the final mock up of the production version will look like.

Like the Viper, V10 power with 500+ horsepower will likely be standard with the Firepower. Beyond that, look for leather everything, a sophisticated navigation and sound system, and real wood trim. Hey, for $80,000 you better get the real stuff!

We won’t know until this Spring whether the Firepower will see the light of day. DCX may decide that the Firepower could steal more sales from the Viper than the Vette, resulting in the project being cancelled. Still, if the right design is chosen the Firepower would hold its own in a competitive market and complement the Viper not compete against it.


