Title: 
Classic Cars Show Down

Word Count:
344

Summary:
Just recently, another car show was successfully conducted. In Los Angeles’ Sylvan Park, hundreds of car enthusiasts flocked to attend the Optimist Car Show and Chili Cook-off. The event took off with more than 350 classic vehicles, cars, and autos in attendance plus a huge number of motorcycles as well.


Keywords:
auto parts,Plymouth,Plymouth Voyager parts,Plymouth accessories


Article Body:
In the auto world, one of the most sought after events are classic car shows. This is usually one of those events where you can find lots of car lovers, aficionados, followers, and simple car enthusiasts. And because classic car shows are events where various kinds of people can simply stare, gawk, or even appreciate at all the unusual and really classic autos and vehicles, it would not be very surprising to see throngs and throngs of people during such events. 

Just recently, another car show was successfully conducted. In Los Angeles’ Sylvan Park, hundreds of car enthusiasts flocked to attend the Optimist Car Show and Chili Cook-off. This car show actually is done every year and the year 2006 marks as the 15th time that such an event was held. 

Such an event features classic cars. However, there are other main attractions that attendees could find interesting. While going through the area, one can find live music from a couple of bands. There are also various stalls that offer a huge range of food choices as well as beverages to quench the thirst of any tired car show aficionado. Of course, it would not be surprising to find some people also offering those who attended the classic car show classic auto parts like Plymouth Voyager parts. 

Anyhow, the event took off with more than 350 classic vehicles, cars, and autos in attendance plus a huge number of motorcycles as well. These vehicles were displayed so that everyone could take a look at such creations. Those owners who showed off their vehicles and who shared their well maintained vehicles took home prizes, especially those who owned the best vehicles in each class. 

John Johnson is the chairman for this year’s car show. Of course, he was quite enthusiastic by the wonderful outcome of the event. And the income that they would be able to generate would be helping out those in need. He explains, “Our car show is our major fundraise for the year along with being one of the signature public events in Redlands.”


