Title: 
Consumer Guide Automotive Gives Isuzu Better than Average Ratings

Word Count:
522

Summary:
Consumer Guide Auto rated several SUVs on various features and ranked the 2008 Isuzu Ascender better than the class average in four separate categories:  Acceleration, Fuel Economy, Controls, and Cargo Room.


Keywords:
SUV, pickup truck, sports utility vehicles, Isuzu SUV


Article Body:
In an article published January 26, 2008 (? Today is the 21st?), Consumer Guide Auto rated several SUVs on various features and ranked the 2008 Isuzu Ascender better than the class average in four separate categories:  Acceleration, Fuel Economy, Controls, and Cargo Room. 

ChrisThe September 7, 2007 review of the 2008 Isuzu Ascender by staff at Cars-dot-com praised the mid-size SUV for its standard side-impact airbags, body on frame construction, and rack-and-pinion steering.  U.S. News & World Report noted, "The 2008 Isuzu Ascender base model comes with manual driver and front passenger seats, height-adjustable front headrests, a second row folding bench seat, power windows and door locks, a tilt steering column, air conditioning with CFC-free refrigerant, manual dual-zone climate control with rear switch, and an AM/FM stereo and CD player with six speakers. Buyers who choose the Preferred Equipment Package also get an 8-way power driver's seat with lumbar support, remote keyless entry, cruise control, and a cargo cover, among other conveniences." 

Editors for Kelley Blue Book wrote this about the 2008 Isuzu Ascender, "Have you been itching to get a new GMC Envoy or Chevrolet TrailBlazer, but you're waiting for some big event to ensure you get the most bang for your buck? We're going to let you in on a little secret: The deal you've been waiting for is at this very moment sitting at the Isuzu dealership. It's the 2008 Ascender, a carbon copy of the GMC and Chevrolet twins, with a nearly-identicalnearly identical price tag but with an additional two years added to the powertrain warranty (seven-years/75,000 miles vs. five-years/100,000 miles). The Ascender is not available with a V8 engine, but it has the same suspension, same interior features and same seating capacity as the GMC and Chevrolet offerings. How can you go wrong?" 

Kelley Blue Book isn't the only one to notice the superior warranty of the Isuzu Ascender.   In a report comparing the top 25 mid-size SUVs, U.S. News & World Report pointed out that the Ascender has an "excellent warranty compared to competitors."  And we're hard pressed to find an SUV that can prove otherwise.  Even the popular 2008 Honda Pilot only offers a powertrain warranty for five years or 60,000 miles.  The Isuzu Ascender's powertrain warranty is good for seven years or 75,000 miles.  
In addition to the superior powertrain warranty, the 2008 Isuzu Ascender also offers a 3-year/50,000-Mile Basic Limited Warranty with no deductible, a 6-Year/100,000-Mile Corrosion Limited Warranty, and a 7-Year/100,000-Mile Roadside Assistance package. 
No other SUV offers that combination of warranties to its customers.

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) awarded the 2008 Ascender five out of five stars for front- and back-seat occupant safety in side-impact crashes.  The excellent rating can be attributed to the head-curtain, side-impact airbags that now come standard in the SUV. 
While above-average ratings from entities like the NHTSA and U.S. News & World Report are certainly something to be proud of, Isuzu is most proud of the above-average ratings it receives from the folks who drive it.  With exceptional safety and performance features, considerable cargo and passenger space, and available luxury packages and accessories, the Isuzu is easy to customize for individual drivers and their needs.


