Title: 
Cooling Fans for your car

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Vehicles require cooling fans to transfer heat just the way humans' require a cooler to get off the heat during summer season. An adequate cooling fan not only protects your engine from getting burnt but also ensures its longevity.


Keywords:
cooling fans, dual high performance fans, single high performance fan,celectric fans


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Darren Dunner

Vehicles require cooling fans to transfer heat just the way humans' require a cooler to get off the heat during summer season. An adequate cooling fan not only protects your engine from getting burnt but also ensures its longevity.

Features of Radiator Cooling Fans

 Radiator Cooling Fans transfer heat blown through it by the fan.
 It automatically adjusts itself to cope up with the temperature of the engine.
 It turns on when the temperature of the engine goes above a set point and stops when the temperature goes back to normal.
 Some Radiator cooling fans are controlled with the help of engine computer
 Some Radiator Cooling fans are specially designed to work on the basis of a thermostatic switch

Cooling Fans have four to six blades that work rapidly to provide sufficient air to keep the engine cool. They are basically available in two different types mainly

Dual high performance fans

Features

1. They are up to 2780 cubic feet/minute
2. They have closed motors
3. They require a mounting surface of approximately 16.5"x24"
4. They have a long life

Single high performance fans

Features

1. Single high performance fans require a minimum of 3.5" clearance between your vehicle radiator and engine pump.
2. They are available in different diameters and thin blades. Fan Man has been a great competitor in sales of automotive cooling fans. We deal in wide high performance fans that can only help your vehicles run better. We offer cooling fans of different shapes and sizes ranging from 6.5 to 16 inches in diameter. We offer cooling fans with skewed or straight reversible blades that vary according to your distinct vehicle cooling needs. Our range of cooling fans is as per your expectations and are known for there

Light Weight Low profile design Distinct and sound operation Quick and simple installation Long life duration Reliable and durable construction

Tips that can help

There are many companies that provide you with different types of radiator cooling fans. It is difficult to decide which one is the best. This makes it very much important that you select a cooling fan that best suits the requirements of your car. If you find that the radiator cooling fan or the cooling products that you received from the respective companies is not in good condition. It would be advisable that you report immediately to the shipping carrier as damaged and claim the damage file accordingly.


