Title: 
Cruising With the Infiniti Q45

Word Count:
460

Summary:
The Infiniti is the luxury brand running under Nissan Motors. One of the vehicles that run under the Infiniti brand and name is the Infiniti Q45. It has Xenon headlights that contain seven lenses which makes it look high technology.


Keywords:
Auto parts,Infiniti,Infiniti Q45,Infiniti parts,G20


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Sold in the United States, in Canada, in the Middle East, in South Korea, and in Taiwan, the Infiniti is the luxury brand running under Nissan Motors. At present, Nissan Motors is contemplating on releasing the Infiniti brand in other markets like in Europe (taking Russia and Ukraine by 2007), China (possible 10 dealerships by next year), and also in Japan after two years. 

The models of this brand of luxury vehicles are identified easily because their names are usually made up of one or two capital letters that are appended by numbers. The numbers are supposed to indicate the capacity of the engine. At present, Infiniti has only three car models which are the sedan, the coupe, and the sports utility vehicle. All vehicles under this brand are traditionally based on the very same automobile platforms that some Nissan models also utilize. Compared with Nissan vehicles, Infiniti vehicles often hold and feature more powerful engines, tuned suspensions, steering systems, and more luxurious interior appointments. 

Interested parties and Infinity owners could buy top quality discount auto parts from Auto Parts Go’s online store. Auto Parts Go offers new auto parts, replacement car parts, OEM auto parts, and aftermarket auto parts. As for Infiniti parts and accessories, the Auto Parts Go offers parts for the Infiniti G20, the I30, the I35, the J30, the M30, the Q45, and the QX4 among many others. For the Infiniti Q45 parts, the list includes blow motors, wiper blades, differential seals, a/c condensers, headlight bulbs, air filters, water pumps, starters among many others. 

One of the vehicles that run under the Infiniti brand and name is the Infiniti Q45. It has Xenon headlights that contain seven lenses which makes it look high technology. The chrome grill of this vehicle is highlighted by chrome Infiniti logo along with some tasteful chrome accents that shine on the trunk lid and the door sills. The seats of the Infiniti Q45 have been gracefully and comfortably done. They are adjustable and are covered in supple yet tough leather. The interior is climate controlled. The rear seats could actually recline and are heated. It has luxury features that complete the whole package of the Infiniti Q45. 

The Infiniti Q45 comes with a whole package of features. The list includes a 10-way power driver’s seat, an 8-way power passenger’s seat, a 2-preference memory for driver’s seat, mirrors, and wheel, heated front seats, climate-controlled front seats, heated power rear seats, a dual-zone climate control, a power tilt and telescopic steering wheel, rear audio and climate controls, an Infiniti analog clock, an intelligent cruise control system, a 300-watt Bose audio system, a rearview monitor, an Infiniti  voice recognition system, and a satellite radio among many others. 
</p>


