Title: 
Curtains Down For The Volvo C30

Word Count:
310

Summary:
The Volvo C30 looks sporty and performs like a sports vehicle. The Volvo C30 would be actually sent out to the motoring public come the following year, 2007.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo V70 dashboard parts,Volvo parts,Volvo C30,Volvo accessories


Article Body:
“The new Volvo C30 is a cool car. A car that aims for a group of young singles, or couples, with an intense urban lifestyle.” 

These were the words given out by Fredrik Arp. Arp is actually the president and the chief executive officer of Volvo Cars. And he is talking about the sporty Volvo C30. The Volvo C30 looks sporty and performs like a sports vehicle. Though it only holds two doors, it has got four seats in its interior. Although the production of this vehicle would be starting by the end of this year, the Volvo C30 would be actually sent out to the motoring public come the following year, 2007. 

Arp further expresses, “These people (those who live an intense urban lifestyle) prioritize excitement in design and driving characteristics, and this car is designed to suit their taste and lifestyle.” Just like how Volvo V70 dashboard parts perfect fit all V70s, the Volvo C30 would be the car for those who live the urban life to the fullest. 

If you are interested to meet the Volvo C30 firsthand, you can rush to the Paris Motor Show which would be happening this December. After all, everybody would not be able to see just what kind of power and what kind of design this car has. And being able to see it upfront and in the flesh would be something worth the long wait. 

According to Volvo, they are targeting a production of 65,000 units of the Volvo C30 in a year. They are also expecting a huge amount of buyers of this vehicle to hail from the continent of Europe. Those who have already set sight on the Volvo C30 concept vehicle which was shown off at the Detroit Motor Show early this year would find not a lot of changes to the production version of the Volvo C30.


