Title: 
Curtains Down For The New Ford Focus Coupe Cabriolet

Word Count:
289

Summary:
The much awaited Ford Focus Coupe Cabriolet will be unveiled soon enough. And all those who would be actually able to witness such an event will find out that, indeed, this new Ford Focus is a vehicle that is worth your while and your money.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford,Ford parts,Ford F250 Heavy Duty Pickup parts,Ford body parts,Ford accessories


Article Body:
The much awaited Ford Focus Coupe Cabriolet will be unveiled soon enough. And all those who would be actually able to witness such an event will find out that, indeed, this new Ford Focus is a vehicle that is worth your while and your money. 

The Ford Motor Company states that the new Ford Focus Coupe Cabriolet holds an open air motoring feature. And aside from this, it also offers owners and passengers stability, comfort, as well as practicality. Of course, this is very much associated with the current range of the Ford Focus line of vehicles, making it a top selling vehicle in the auto market. Come October this year, interested parties can start purchasing this new model. And this month, the Ford Focus Coupe Cabriolet would be making its debut in the United Kingdom at the British International Motor Show. 

Created and manufactured by the Ford Motor Company, the Ford Focus range of vehicles has been produced since 1998. It took the spot that previously belonged to the Ford Escort and the Ford Orion. It actually belongs to the compact car and the small family car segment. It has been built in various body styles that include the hatchback with three doors, the sedan holding four, the station wagon which also holds four doors, and the hatchback with five doors. For its power source, it runs on a 1.4 liter to 2.3 liter I4 engine. 

Either with the top down or up, the Ford Focus Coupe Cabriolet is a sight to behold. It is stylish and has a two-piece folding hardtop. This hardtop can be placed up or down with an efficient, neat, and very reliable system that only takes as much as 29 seconds for the whole process to complete.


