Title: 
Daewoo Leganza: Elegance and Power

Word Count:
537

Summary:
The Daewoo Leganza made its way into the American automobile market as Daewoo’s flagship small car. This midsize sedan is fairly cheap and holds loads of equipment. The Daewoo Leganza cries out with a confident styling as well as an advanced powertrain and suspension.


Keywords:
Daewoo Leganza: Elegance and Power


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
This vehicle comes with an exterior that has been jointly designed by in-house stylists and Giugiaro’s renowned ItalDesign operation. The latter is an Italian studio that has been the very reason for the Lexus GS300’s façade. Daewoo claims that the name for this vehicle, Leganza, is a combination of two words taken from the Italian language – “Elegante”, meaning elegant, and “Forza”, meaning power. 

The Daewoo Leganza made its way into the American automobile market as Daewoo’s flagship small car. This midsize sedan is fairly cheap and holds loads of equipment. It is made from respectable quality materials. Statistics and sales show that the Daewoo Leganza is the largest and the most expensive vehicle model that Daewoo, the automobile company, has presented and introduced to the United States. This vehicle has been made available in three trim levels which comprise of the SE, the SX, and the premium CDX. 

The Daewoo Leganza cries out with a confident styling as well as an advanced powertrain and suspension. Giving the vehicle a distinctive kind of look is its chromed radiator grille. This grille also gives the car more elegance. For a very affordable sedan, the Daewoo Leganza sports along with it a unique and creative style and design. Impressing its competition as well as the customers, the Daewoo Leganza holds high quality body parts, a range of options for comfort, and a variety of choices for paint finish and color. Available for the interior and cabin is a leather option and a nice wood trim. As per performance, this sedan comes with a modest body roll during cornering and light steering, a fully independent strut-type suspension, four wheel disc anti-lock brakes, and a rack and pinion power steering. It holds Daewoo’s D-Tec engine as well as a five-speed manual for its base transmission. 

Customers can choose from an array of body colors for the Daewoo Leganza. The available colors comprise of scarlet mica, poly silver metallic, olive silver metallic, midnight blue mica, harbost mist mica, granada black mica, and galaxy white. The available colors for its interior are gray and beige.

This vehicles comes with a variety of features. The list includes a front wheel drive, a front anti-roll bar, coil rear springs, front and rear mud flaps, a chrome grille, an illuminated entry, driver airbags, passenger airbags, dual power remote heated mirrors, a day/night rearview mirror, front bucket seats, a full cloth headliner, a carpet floor trim, front reading lights, an air filter, an AM/FM stereo with seek-scan, an auto-reverse cassette, six speakers, power door locks, an in-dash clock, a tilt steering wheel, power front and rear windows, a rear defroster, and a tachometer. 

Auto Parts Discount offers Daewoo parts that are focused and made on reliability, quality, great designs, as well as affordable prices. With the Daewoo tradition of designing and manufacturing efficient and innovative vehicles and cars, Auto Parts Discount has in its stock the widest array of high standard Daewoo parts. Customers can visit Auto Parts Discount’s website and they can access this online store’s impressive collection of highly durable and reliable Daewoo parts to match the equally impressive performance of Daewoo cars.
</p>


