Title: 
Dash Kits Installation

Word Count:
502

Summary:
How to install many different styles of Dash Kits, such as Wood Dash Kits, Carbon Fiber Car Dash Kits, and Dash Trim Kits


Keywords:
Dash Kits, Wood Dash Kits, Car Dash Kits, Dash Trim Kits


Article Body:
Car dash kit installation had been a process which was done manually in before days. But now it has been well automated, and even an ordinary layman can install the dash kit in his car using the simple step-by-step instructions for installation.

Each car company provides the customer with a step-by-step installation guide and if at any moment the customer feels hanged up or feels the need of an assistance the customer care center can be called up for further assistance regarding the installation process. 

Some of the care instructions to be taken before the installation process are: the red plastic on the back of each piece should not be peeled off at the initial point; the filament of each piece has to be checked properly in the kit by fixing it to the dash and checking it. If any of the kit does not match do not continue with the process, just stop the process and the local distributor has to be contacted immediately for further installation. Utmost care should be taken to avoid direct skin contact while installing or any sort of prolonged exposure with any chemical agent which is given in the installation kit. These are the tips on safeguards to be maintained before installing the kit. In the same way there are some tips to be followed during the process too; such as alcohol should not be applied to dash the trim pieces which are not over layered. The adhesive promoter has to be applied wisely, as it gets dried very quickly. So, it has to be applied as son as possible through the whole dash area once the adhesive promoter is been opened.

While installing the dash kit people have their own preferences. So, the companies give a vast and best choice on this regard. The customer can choose the color and the wood based on the color on the interior present. Likely, if a car interior is in a dark color to have a perfect blend a dark colored kit can be chosen and the same way for a light colored interior car a light colored kit can be chosen. The best choices will be offered by the company who deals in the kit itself. The best combination on colors can be chosen from the catalogues provided in the showrooms.

While installing the kit, the customer either can take the help of the dealer or can install himself as it is an easy to do process. Some useful tips have to be read carefully and implemented, before and while installing the kit. Dash kit installation is just an easy go process as the company who deals with it itself provides a complete step-by-step guide on the installation process and in any case of trouble or trouble shooting the customer care centre of the company can be contacted for further assistance. A wide range of color combinations and appealing looks are provided as people concentrate more on their dash boards and on their appealing and unique looks.


