Title: 
Define Lincoln Luxury: Challenge Given By Lincoln And Magic Johnson To Aspiring Filmmakers

Word Count:
376

Summary:
The Ford Motor Company’s luxury brand, Lincoln, and the NBA legend, Earvin “Magic” Johnson” are calling you. All you need to do is “Define Lincoln Luxury” and you will be winning a 2006 Lincoln Zephyr. The American Black Film Festival is held annually. Lincoln is sponsoring this year’s American Black Film Festival. As part of that, the brand is introducing its “Define Lincoln Luxury” contest. Aside from the 2006 Lincoln Zephyr, the prize also includes a whopping $10,000 prize money.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lincoln,Lincoln Versailles parts,Lincoln parts,Lincoln accessories


Article Body:
Calling all of the best and the brightest aspiring filmmakers. The Ford Motor Company’s luxury brand, Lincoln, and the NBA legend, Earvin “Magic” Johnson” are calling you. All you need to do is “Define Lincoln Luxury” and you will be winning a 2006 Lincoln Zephyr. 

This challenge is in part of Lincoln’s presenting the American Black Film Festival (ABFF) for the seventh year in a row. The American Black Film Festival is held annually. It serves as a channel for film aficionados to show off their stuff, gather together, and be amazed at the various pieces of creativity. Oftentimes, this festival is held for five days. There are premieres, networking, panel discussions, workshops, and competitive film showcase. 

Lincoln is sponsoring this year’s American Black Film Festival. As part of that, the brand is introducing its “Define Lincoln Luxury” contest. Aside from the 2006 Lincoln Zephyr, the prize also includes a whopping $10,000 prize money. 

Tom Grill, the brand manager for Lincoln, states, “We are proud of our long history with the American Black Film Festival and Film Life which reinforces our support of the independent filmmaking community as it reaches higher to bring its unique voice to a wider audience. ABFF provides an outstanding platform to showcase the many innovative and original perspectives of the Black experience.”

Since 2003, Lincoln and Earvin “Magic” Johnson have both been working together as partners. They have collaborated in various activities in events. There have been television commercials, charity events, and other sports appearances. The most recent is the world debut of the brand new 2007 Lincoln Navigator and Navigator L at the Chicago Auto Show. And at present, they are going to embark on the “Define Lincoln Luxury” competition together. Again. 

To win the prize, aspiring filmmakers must have created an original commercial that articulates their own interpretation of Lincoln luxury. This commercial should be around 30 seconds to a minute long. And of course, there must be a feature of at least one shot of a Lincoln vehicle. 

Lincoln luxury could also be seen through the various Lincoln Versailles parts and other Lincoln parts that Lincoln Parts and Car Parts offer. The parts are absolutely the lowest prices and yet they assist in keeping Lincoln vehicles maintain their claim to luxury.


