Title: 
Doctor Let's the Cat Out of the Bag on Buying Cars 60% Off

Word Count:
824

Summary:
World famous Dr Suzanne Gudakunst has just released her biggest "shocker!" ever ...

    --> Her Secret to buying expensive cars for as
        little as $300 a month!

Dr Suzanne made it big on both TV and now the Web - but what most people don't know is that she routinely buys exotic and luxury cars for as little as 50% of what car dealers force everyone else to pay.

She is able to do this because she discovered something NO car salesman ever wants you to find out about!


Keywords:
buy cars wholesale,buy used cars wholesale,wholesale car purchase, buy cars auto,bmw cars,ford cars,toyota yaris,for sale cars,cars automotive,honda


Article Body:
World famous Dr Suzanne Gudakunst has just released her biggest "shocker!" ever ...

    --> Her Secret to buying expensive cars for as
        little as $300 a month!

Dr Suzanne made it big on both TV and now the Web - but what most people don't know is that she routinely buys exotic and luxury cars for as little as 50% of what car dealers force everyone else to pay.

She is able to do this because she discovered something NO car salesman ever wants you to find out about!

This Secret is so powerful, yet involves doing just 1-3 things (usually) that will allow you to get ANY CAR you want (including normal day-to-day average cars you see on the highway, to even the most expensive exotic cars such as Lamborghinis and Rolls-Royces!)

Most recently Dr Suzanne herself used her own secret to buy over $1 million worth of cars, but where she saved $700,000 using her amazing new breakthrough secret (so she paid just $300,000 and got 6 very pricey cars worth $1 million - and each one was brand new and this year's model!)

But you DON'T have to be looking to buy these top and most expensive cars - but can use her secret to buy any car - even a middle-class Sudan or family vehicle.

So, at this point it's only fair to ask:

    "How did Dr Suzanne discover this?"

Simple really ...

Although very rich (Dr Suzanne makes over $45,000 a day online alone) Dr Suzanne is the kind of gal who doesn't believe in paying "extra" if you don't have to.

One day while shopping around for her first Bentley Rolls-Royce, she got "mixed feelings" from the car salesman trying to sell her the car.

She felt that he wasn't telling her the truth (a kind of "sixth-sense" sort of thing).

So she began compulsively investigating all the deals she could possibly find elsewhere and online, and in the process she started to see a clear pattern:

   --> People are being lied to and cheated out of
       $10,000's each and every time they buy even
       a single car!

Dr Suzanne then got really "ticked off" and this drove her to an even DEEPER investigation far, far further until she had a stack of facts, figures and even methods that allowed her to get one over on the car dealerships (for a well-deserved change!)

Being a doctor and scientist, naturally Dr Suzanne wanted to put her "New Discovery" to the ultimate test:

     * * * A real "live" case! * * *

So she went out and applied her new found "Secret" only to discover that she could get a Rolls-Royce for as little as $600 a month, and a Lamborghini for as little as $1,160 a month!

She also found that she could get the prices on these same kinds of cars reduced by as much as 30%, 50% or even by as much as 90% (or even more!)

Then she decided to see if this same "Secret" could work for what most people considered "normal cars."

And guess what: * * * The SAME Secret held TRUE! * * *

Dr Suzanne was now armed with what is now considered by experts at below wholesale buying to be the "Greatest Car Buying Secret" ever discovered!

So powerful and amazing it PROVED in her own life that she decided to share it with several close friends to see if they too could apply it successfully.

And the SAME THING resulted!

One good and close personal friend of Dr Suzanne's is another Internet Multi-Millionaire (name withheld for privacy reasons) and who wanted to buy a brand new Lamborghini Murcielago which usually costs $412,700* (*this year's model).

After applying Dr Suzanne's secret he was able to get it for:

   o NO Money down!
   o and just $1,300/month!

Yeah, yeah & I know, I know & these people are already rich & so why should they get to use the advantages of her secret, right?

The fact is: Regardless of how much you make (or like most of us, how little!) it doesn't matter.

As they say "a penny saved is a penny earned," so imagine saving $250,000 on a super exotic car (which means $250,000 earned!)

Or, for the rest of us, what if you saved:

   o $15,000 on your next car purchase, Or &
   o $400 a month on payments

These savings quickly add up (and again, BLANK amount saved means BLANK amount earned, regardless of what you put in the BLANKS, right?)

So, if after reading this email you STILL insist on being an "idiot" and paying FULL Price when you no longer ever have to, then fine, leave all the biggest savings to the few of us who are smart enough to grab up Dr Suzanne's "Top Secret Car Secret!"

Oh, and by the way, with the few of us doing so, the car salesmen will have to screw someone else out of all the money that they are losing to us, so that means "YOU" will be their next victim.

... Unless of course you happen to have a COPY of Dr Suzanne's "Top Secret Car Secret" like we do!


