Title: 
Dodge: Awesome and Invigorated!

Word Count:
411

Summary:
No longer in Chrysler's shadow, Dodge, DaimlerChrysler's performance division is cranking out some truly awesome looking vehicles. We look at some of the champions of the current line up and peer into the future at models waiting in the wings.


Keywords:
discount Dodge parts, Dodge Ram, Dodge Magnum,  Dodge Charger, Dodge Caliper, Dodge Nitro, car parts


Article Body:
If you are a car fan you know that part of the fun of following the market is examining new models as they enter the showroom. There is just something special about a new car: the smell, the look, the price tag! For some 17 million American drivers a new car is in their future, while many others opt for the used car market. Some of the cars on the market today are hot, hot, hot! Let’s take a look at several new and future offerings from Dodge.

Thanks in part to new ownership [Daimler Benz purchased the Chrysler Corporation in 1998] a fresh infusion of great looking Dodge models have hit a showroom near you. Additional models are soon to appear and the makeover that Dodge has been receiving is nothing less than astounding. Here are some of my favorites:

<b>Magnum</b> - Who said that a station wagon should resemble a family hauler? The Magnum sure doesn’t. With an intimidating grille and a rakish exterior, the Magnum is a true man pleaser while also giving women a bit extra room in the back to haul stuff. Throw in a Hemi and the Magnum truly rocks!

<b>Charger</b> – Okay, so the new Charger has four doors. Well, you can’t have everything. You <i>can</i> have macho looks, a powerful engine, and a car that is certain to compete with anything that Japan or Germany throws its way. Word has it that DaimlerChrysler is considering a coupe version. Now, wouldn’t that be cool!

<b>Caliber</b> - Bye, bye Neon. The Neon served Dodge well, but it isn’t in the same caliber as the Caliber. Pun intended. To be introduced in Spring 2006 as a 2007 model, the Caliber will have three engine choices: 1.8, 2.0, and 2.4 I4s, a continuously available transaxle, and all wheel drive. In addition, 2.0L diesel engines will be available outside of the North American market – why not here? – as DaimlerChrysler sets to introduce the Dodge name into new markets.

Other Dodge vehicles that are getting noticed include the Ram and Dakota pick up trucks, the Durango SUV and the soon to be introduced Dodge Nitro, the division’s version of the compact Jeep Liberty. Oh, yeah, who could forget the 510-hp V10 Viper? Can you say, Corvette beater?

One word you can’t associate with Dodge anymore is the word, “boring.” Exciting cars, trucks, and SUVs for a market craving these types of hot vehicles. I guess the “ram” insignia really does befit the name.


