Title: 
Doing A Little Zoom-Zoom With the Mazda CX 7

Word Count:
508

Summary:
The Mazda CX 7 is a crossover sport utility vehicle that is midsize. This vehicle will fill the niche that the Mazda Tribute has left behind. Interested parties may also have a choice between a front wheel drive and the Mazda Active Torque Split all wheel drive system. The Mazda CX 7 is considered to be quite similar to the Honda Pilot, the Nissan Murano, Subaru B9 Tribeca, and the Toyota Highlander.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda CX 7,Mazda parts, Mazda accessories,wheels


Article Body:
Early this year, the building and production of another new vehicle from the Mazda Motor Corporation has already begun. And the stage has been set in Hiroshima, Japan, which is also where the headquarters of this giant automobile company is based. And this new vehicle that would soon be on sale this year is the Mazda CX 7. 

The Mazda CX 7 is a crossover sport utility vehicle that is midsize. And this vehicle is actually the production version of the Mazda MX Crossport that was a concept car. When this vehicle starts to strut its stuff on the market, it would actually be marketed as a 2007 model. This vehicle will fill the niche that the Mazda Tribute has left behind. However, it has been said that this vehicle would only stay for a short time which would only be up until the company is able to take off two more new sport utility vehicles come the year 2008. The Mazda CX 7 is considered to be quite similar to the Honda Pilot, the Nissan Murano, Subaru B9 Tribeca, and the Toyota Highlander. 

Beneath the glamour and the beauty of the Mazda CX 7, one’s interest would also be held by the machine that keeps this vehicle running. The source of power of this vehicle is a 2.3 liter straight four MZR engine. This very same engine is also used in the Mazda Mazdaspeed 6. This power source could actually produce some 244 hp at 5000 rpm and also 258 pound feet of torque at a low 2500 rpm. Aside from that, this vehicle also boasts of additional features to make the driving and riding the Mazda CX 7 more pleasant and very enjoyable. The list of features include fully independent suspension systems, four wheel ventilated disc brakes with anti lock brakes made standard, and a stability control and traction control system. Interested parties may also have a choice between a front wheel drive and the Mazda Active Torque Split all wheel drive system. The latter actually has a computer controlled coupling that is able to provide up to a maximum of fifty percent of the whole of the engine’s torque to its rear wheels. 

The Mazda CX 7 has been built on a new platform which has shown that the rumors were untrue about this sport utility vehicle using the same Ford/Mazda CD3 platform that is also used by the Ford Edge crossover, the Mazda6, and the Lincoln MKX crossover. 

To know more about the Mazda CX 7 and also to purchase parts of this vehicle and other Mazda parts, you can actually visit Auto Parts Discount. Auto Parts Discount is one of the leading suppliers of Mazda parts in the United States. Each and every Mazda part that this online store offers is guaranteed to be made from excellent quality, durable and reliable material that would surely maintain the exquisite performance of any Mazda vehicle. Also, these parts are guaranteed to fit. With the parts available at discount and wholesale prices, Auto Parts Discount also offers an excellent customer service staff for any inquiries regarding their products.


