Title: 
DriversEd.com Educates High School Students On Driving

Word Count:
322

Summary:
Teenagers can take a head start on driver’s education through DriversEd.com. This website has just set up a new set of learning tools to assist wannabe drivers learn quickly and efficiently about the life and experience of being behind the wheel.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mitsubishi,Mitsubshi OEM parts,Mitsubishi accessories


Article Body:
Teenagers can take a head start on driver’s education through DriversEd.com. This website has just set up a new set of learning tools to assist wannabe drivers learn quickly and efficiently about the life and experience of being behind the wheel. 

Of course, the experience of being behind the wheel is just one of the things that should be learned by teenagers who would like to know how to drive. The proper driving etiquette and behavior is another thing. Important as well are information on car maintenance and sources of Mitsubishi OEM parts for vehicles. The parts of the car and their functions should also be learned by the would-be driver. DriversEd.com has set out a program called the “click. learn. drive.”. This program actually is very efficient in providing teenagers training on driving. 

With the Gradual Driver Licensing or the GDL, teenagers are required to actually have more experience with driving. Although its guidelines may actually vary as per the state where the teenager is from there are requirements that are followed by all states like the driver should be at a minimum age of 15 years and a half for them to obtain a learner’s permit. Teenagers should also have to undergo a waiting period of at least three months after being able to have a learner’s permit before they could go on applying for an intermediate license. These drivers should also have at least 30 hours of supervised driving. 

DriversEd.com founder Gary Tsifrin remarks, “We are seeing around the country that States are raising the bar for driver’s ed and training. It is great that teens are required to have additional training, so that they are more experienced when they hit the road making driving safer for everyone. But schedule is proving to be a real problem. We make it possible for students to complete their driver’s ed requirements on their own time.”


