Title: 
Driving While Drunk Can Now Be Prevented

Word Count:
311

Summary:
At present, there has been a new kind of technology that has been presented to the public. It is an anti-drunk driving technology and has been foreseen to become a major factor to help out reduce the high number of deaths and injuries caused by the results drunk driving.


Keywords:
auto parts,Land Rover,Rover body parts,Rover accessories,Land rover parts


Article Body:
No matter how many advertisements and campaigns have been done by various individuals, groups, or organizations to increase the awareness of the public on driving while drunk, people still tend to get behind the wheel of a vehicle despite the fact that they are already intoxicated. In fact, drunk driving has been one of the major causes of vehicle mishaps, accidents, crashes, and collisions that have resulted to deaths and injuries of drivers and pedestrians alike. 

At present, there has been a new kind of technology that has been presented to the public. It is an anti-drunk driving technology and has been foreseen to become a major factor to help out reduce the high number of deaths and injuries caused by the results drunk driving.

“A Nation Without Drunk Driving.” This is a symposium that will be sponsored by Mothers Against Drunk Driving, or known as MADD as part of the International DUI (meaning Driving Under the Influence) Technology Symposium that would be held on the 19th and the 20th of this month in Albuquerque, Canada. During this symposium, the latest innovations to help out lessen the number of drunk drivers would be showcased. The list would include alcohol-detecting sensors and anklet devices. These actually test the alcohol levels in the skin so much so that the ignition on their vehicles would lock up in case they do detect that a driver is drunk. All these innovations and technologies would be presented by researchers, law enforcement officers, and criminal justice people. 

According to Paul Marques, Ph. D., “We have technological solutions that can very likely save lives – it is time we started fully using them. Most states and communities could employ this technology right away and see immediate benefits in reducing impaired driving. But they are not doing it.” Marque is a senior research scientist with PIRE Public Services Research Institute.


