Title: 
Drive To Save: Tips on How to Lessen Car Costs

Word Count:
478

Summary:
Now, gas pumps measure the volume of the fuel and not the density, you would be getting a better and greater amount of gas for your money if you purchase this commodity during cold weather. That is the very reason why people offer a piece of advice when buying gas: buy in the early morning or at night.


Keywords:
auto parts,driving tips,Audi parts,Audi accessories


Article Body:
According to some people, the proper knowledge of chemistry and its effects on gas and fuel could assist you greatly in stretching your dollar. This is because experts in chemistry explain that gas actually becomes denser in cooler temperatures. Now, gas pumps measure the volume of the fuel and not the density, you would be getting a better and greater amount of gas for your money if you purchase this commodity during cold weather. That is the very reason why people offer a piece of advice when buying gas: buy in the early morning or at night. This is when the temperature is cooler compared to the temperature during noon time. 

However, this is only a small part of keeping your costs when it comes to driving lower. Automobile experts have come up with tips on how to further reduce your driving costs. 

One of the tricks up these experts sleeve is to use the vehicle when only necessary. People have become very dependent on their vehicles so much so that the simple and short trip to the mall would require them to still use the vehicle. This is despite the very fact that one could simply take a short walk to the mall to get there. Or, short trips could also be done by riding a bicycle. 

Two percent is reduced from your fuel mileage if your car has under inflated tires. So it would be best to check your car’s tire pressure regularly. Experts recommend that you check your tires monthly. If your tires are under inflated, it also means that it is very much prone to wear and damage which is another added cost to driving. 

By keeping your speed within the limit, you are actually saving up to 20 percent of fuel. So, be sure that you obey those speed limits. Also, do not accelerate or brake suddenly if not required. These use up a great amount of gas that, when combined, costs you a great deal of money. 

Air conditioning also uses up fuel economy from a low of ten percent to a high of twenty percent. It also uses up your battery and drains it. Use the wind during sunny days. It would be more fun to drive with the wind in your hair. Also, excess weight on your vehicle tends to gobble up your fuel. Reduce the amount of cargo or luggage that you have. 

Damaged parts also equate to losing gas. This is primarily because the whole car system has to work double time to keep the vehicle running well despite the fact that some parts are not running well. Automobile experts recommend that you replace these parts immediately rather than spend more on gas. Auto Parts Discount is one auto parts store that offers quality parts at low prices. They are well-known for their topnotch Audi parts and accessories.


