Title: 
Driving Lessons For The Teenager

Word Count:
347

Summary:
When teaching a teenager to drive, you should first ask yourself if you do have the patience and the right amount of knowledge to do away with the task. If not, it would be much better for you to have another person teach the teenager instead.


Keywords:
auto parts,Infiniti,Infiniti G20 parts,Infiniti Q45 parts,Infinity parts,Infinity accessories


Article Body:
So how do you teach a teenager to drive? 

When teaching a teenager to drive, you should first ask yourself if you do have the patience and the right amount of knowledge to do away with the task. If not, it would be much better for you to have another person teach the teenager instead. You could have your spouse, your friend, or a driving teacher to do the job for you. 

Now, before you go ahead and teach your teenager student, check if he has a learner’s permit, license or any other requirement necessary for driving students to have. It is best to be on the safe side. You would not want to be caught by traffic enforcers teaching a teenager who does not even have a license or permit whatsoever. Then, review him or her about the rules of the road. These are mostly taught during the required classroom hours before they can actually get on the road. 

Start by driving the car to an empty parking lot. Or you may also try going to a driving course. That way, there would be enough space for your teenager to work and learn his driving techniques. Then, start explaining the basic workings and mechanisms of the entire car. This should include everything from the inside to the outside. Do this before you actually let your teenager start the engine. Go through details about the car. Make sure that your student understands everything. Repeat everything if you have to. 

After teaching him the basics and the theories, it is time to show it to him through a demonstration. Show him how everything works. Demonstrate how the lights work, as well as other part of the car like the seat belts, wipers, blinkers, horn, emergency lights, and transmission. 

With the lesson done, it is your time to sit on the passenger’s side and have your teenager start up the engine. While he does this, point out how acceleration, braking, and the smooth transmission shifts feel. As he drives, point out corrections, warnings, as well as tips.


