Title: 
Driving With A Manual Transmission

Word Count:
374

Summary:
A vehicle equipped with a manual transmission is often known as a vehicle with a stick shift. Not all people do know how to drive with this kind of transmission, however, automobile experts suggest that once you do know how to drive a vehicle with a stick shift, you would be able to learn to drive with an automatic transmission easily.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda parts,Mazda GLC parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
A vehicle equipped with a manual transmission is often known as a vehicle with a stick shift. Not all people do know how to drive with this kind of transmission, however, automobile experts suggest that once you do know how to drive a vehicle with a stick shift, you would be able to learn to drive with an automatic transmission easily. For those who do now know how to drive a stick shift, these experts suggest that you should practice well. 

If you take a look at the floorboard of your car, you would actually see three pedals. From the left to the right, these are the clutch, the brake, and the gas pedals in that order. Then, you should study the simple diagram on the top of the gearshift. You will see where the gears are from there. Then, press down the clutch pedal and then move the gearshift into neutral. Start your car now. 

Always keep the clutch pedal down as you put the car into first gear by moving the gearshift to the top left position. Then, apply the foot brake and release the parking brake. When you are ready to start moving, release the foot brake. Then, begin to release the clutch pedal slowly and when you start to hear or feel the engine beginning to slow down, slowly press down on the gas pedal as you continue to release the clutch. Expect your car to start moving. 

Then start accelerating until your car has reached around 3,000 rpm. And when you have reached that point, take your foot off the gas pedal and start pressing down on the clutch pedal. Pull the gearshift directly down through neutral to second gear and make sure that you pull the gearshift down until it cannot go any further. Then slowly release the clutch pedal gently while simultaneously pressing down gently on the gas pedal. Repeat the whole shifting process each time you get 3000 rpm while driving. 

Downshift by releasing the gas pedal of your vehicle each time you actually want to decrease your speed. Just press down on the clutch and move the gearshift through neutral into the next-lower gear. Once you get to the lower gear, release the clutch slowly and brake.


