Title: 
DriveCam Reveals Riskiest Driving Behaviors

Word Count:
324

Summary:
June is the National Safety Month. Now, as part of this whole campaign, DriveCam Inc. has recently announced that it is supporting this event and would be doing this by highlighting the risky driving behaviors. These behaviors would be those that would most likely lead to collisions and accidents.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo parts,Volvo body parts,Volvo accessories


Article Body:
June is the National Safety Month. Now, as part of this whole campaign, DriveCam Inc. has most recently announced that it is supporting this event and would be doing this by highlighting the risky driving behaviors. These behaviors would be those that would most likely lead to collisions and accidents. DriveCam Inc. is a Driver Risk Management (DRM) company. 

According to DriveCam Inc., by revealing these risky driving behaviors, they would be able to heighten awareness. And by doing this, they would also be able to help out in improving safety for everybody who is on the road or even just on the side of the road. 

This is indeed a good way to heighten the awareness of people and drivers. The National Safety Month was first established in 1996 by the National Safety Council. This is all in part of the statistics that they have gathered which informed them that motor vehicle crashes have been the leading cause of accidental death and injury. Their statistics continue to show this fact. As per the figures for the year 2004, it shows that there were 110,000 accidental deaths for that year. However, the upsetting fact is that out of this huge number, 46,200 Americans have died in motor vehicle collisions plus some 2.4 million that were seriously injured. And as part of the studies, most accidents started from risky driving behaviors. 

On DriveCam Inc’s end, they were able to take in facts and data from the commercial fleets that used their products. They were able to get thousands of videos that recorded events of unusual driving behavior as well as risky driving behavior. They studied their data and they have identified seven common risky driving activities that could be the results of crashes. The list included following too close or tailgating; poor awareness when approaching intersections; driving while distracted; not looking far enough on the road ahead; speeding and driving too fast; fatigue; and passing and risky lane change.


