Title: 
Electric RC Car V/S Nitro RC Car - Making The Choice

Word Count:
503

Summary:
At this stage of reading this valuable information, its assumed that you already have a fair understanding of what radio controlled vehicle racing is in general and rc cars racing in particular. If you don’t, a good place to start would be to go to our website RCCarsSecrets.com and read the basics about understanding your RC Car. If you already made that journey, then you would be at a stage when you would have to choose the kind of car you want to experience your speed thril...


Keywords:
nitro rc car, rc drag car, rc car engine, wholesale rc car, scale rc car,electric rc cars


Article Body:
At this stage of reading this valuable information, its assumed that you already have a fair understanding of what radio controlled vehicle racing is in general and rc cars racing in particular. If you don’t, a good place to start would be to go to our website RCCarsSecrets.com and read the basics about understanding your RC Car. If you already made that journey, then you would be at a stage when you would have to choose the kind of car you want to experience your speed thrills in. Rtc rc cars are a great bet and so are rtc rc trucks. The fundamental choice however is should you go in for an electric rc car or do you want to go for a nitro rc car.

Both types of cars have their own advantages and disadvantages as do rtc rc cars or even rtc rc trucks for that matter. To make that decision you need to do some proper soul searching and identify that one goal that you want to achieve in the world of rc cars racing. The reason for that is quite simple, the skills that you learn coupled with the investments that the sport calls for makes it unviable to broad base one’s learning. To put it simply, its better to not become a jack of all trades and a master of none. These are what we believe are the fundamental rules of life applying not just to rtc cars and rc trucks, but to every walk of life!

If you are just starting out and looking forward to honing you skills on the control, then its automatic choice to go in for an electric rc car. They are easier to source, easier to maintain and above all require just a basic ability to handle the controls. This means that steering the car and maneuvering it through a winding track is that much easier and is a good learning ground to understand the nuances of “distanced control” because you are not physically present in the car steering it. On a softer note, literally, electric rc cars are quieter than any other type of rc cars.

On the other hand, if you already have acquired a fine ability to control your rc cars and want to take your skills to the next level, and also if you are looking for a speed rush, then the nitro rc car is just the right one for you. What makes the nitro car different from the others is it’s ability to provide extreme levels of acceleration in very short bursts of time. The speed freaks you see all across the town are not only good at what they do, but what makes them that good is the super powerful nitro rc cars they are using.

If you can make your mind now about which rc car to go in for, then the objective of this article has been served!

Did we just hear the revving of your RC mechanical marvel?


