Title: 
Eos: Volkswagen’s New Convertible

Word Count:
292

Summary:
The world is meeting the Eos, an all-new convertible produced and running under the umbrella of Volkswagen. The recent list of new Volkswagen vehicles holds a 24-hour roadside assistance for four years along with unlimited mileage.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volkswagen,Volkswagen Passat parts,Beetle auto parts,Volkswagen parts,Volkswagen accessories


Article Body:
The world is meeting the Eos, an all-new convertible produced and running under the umbrella of Volkswagen. The recent list of new Volkswagen vehicles holds a 24-hour roadside assistance for four years along with unlimited mileage. The Volkswagen Eos also comes with that along with other warranties like a five-year/60,000 mile Powertrain Limited Warranty, a four-year/50,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty with wear and tear items and adjustments excluded after the initial 12 months/12,000 miles, and a 12-year unlimited distance Limited Warranty against corrosion perforation. 

This new vehicle from Volkswagen would soon be arriving in showrooms this coming fall. This is according to the announcement given by Volkswagen of America just recently. The Volkswagen Eos is a convertible that holds four seats. It also features a revolutionary three-panel roof which actually transforms a hardtop coupe roof with an integrated sunroof to an open convertible. 

The power of this vehicle comes from two engine choices. These comprise of the 2.0 liter turbo engine with four cylinders which can produce some 200 units of horsepower, and the narrow angle V6 engine that produces 250 units of horsepower. 

The Volkswagen Eos comes with a wide range of features to keep customers happy and content. The list includes a high-quality Electronic Stabilization Program (ESP), safety-optimized front headrests, front airbags, specially developed front side head-thorax airbags, 16-inch alloy wheels, an air conditioning system, fog lights, a panoramic sunroof, power windows, and a cruise control system. 

The vehicle has been marketed to be quite an agile one. It also holds safe handling characteristics for a better driving and riding experience. The company claims that this capacity of the Volkswagen Eos is due to its length and height as well as width. All in all, the Volkswagen Eos boasts of a powerful appearance.


