Title: 
EPA, Out For Illegal Imported Engines

Word Count:
349

Summary:
Just recently, the Environmental Protection Agency, or commonly called the EPA, of the United States along with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection have made sure that any illegal imported engines are stopped before they cross the borders of the country.


Keywords:
auto parts,reliable car parts,automotive


Article Body:
Air pollution and environment destruction is one of the major concerns that envelop not only environment agencies and groups but even the automotive world is concerned. And just recently, the Environmental Protection Agency, or commonly called the EPA, of the United States along with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection have made sure that any illegal imported engines are stopped before they cross the borders of the country. 
	
Mainly, this move is to actually stop entrance of these illegally imported engines from entering the country. Primarily, this is because the groups believe that these engines could actually mar the campaign towards cleaner air. Since these are crafted in other countries, the US specifications on engines would surely not be followed. 

At present, the groups were able to seize the importing of over 11,000 pieces of illegal engines which have been created for gasoline cars and diesel vehicles. Other than that, they are also on the move towards stopping illegally imported parts which negatively impacted those reliable car parts stores that are dedicated to providing only the best service to car owners. This number is only what they were able to confiscate during the past nine months. And with such a campaign already working well, the numbers could still continue to rise. 

These substandard equipment are actually seen as risks to campaigns and projects created by the U.S. public health as well as by groups concerned about the environment. Even Granta Y. Nakayaman, the EPA’s assistance administrator under the Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assistance, is concerned and avows, “The Bush Administration will continue to enforce the Clean Air Act and stop illegal imports. The public’s assistance and cooperation, along with EPA’s commitment to enforcing these regulations, is essential to preserving and protecting the nation’s air quality.” 

Aside from this, even the Clean Air Act or CAA which is a federal law, requires that all new gasoline engines as well as diesel engines that are created, distributed, or sold in the country should be able to meet the standards and requirements given out by EPA.


