Title: 
Ethanol Distillation Facts

Word Count:
622

Summary:
Due to the crazy rise of fuel price and the instability of the fuel market more and more people and trying all kind of alternative fuels, some people are just fed up with spending all their hard earned money to some countries that change the fuel price, usually with reasons that have almost nothing to do with fuel production cost. During the last 3 years there has been a constant and very sharp rise in the price of fuel, some of it was because of the “Katrina” disaster but mo...


Keywords:
ethanol, alternative fuel, Ethanol Distillation Facts


Article Body:
Due to the crazy rise of fuel price and the instability of the fuel market more and more people and trying all kind of alternative fuels, some people are just fed up with spending all their hard earned money to some countries that change the fuel price, usually with reasons that have almost nothing to do with fuel production cost. During the last 3 years there has been a constant and very sharp rise in the price of fuel, some of it was because of the “Katrina” disaster but most of it because of the fuel producing countries controlling this market.

People started understanding that in time the yearly spending on fuel is going to grow to a monster like sum and that it would be nice to cut down these prices as soon as possible, some business saw this trend getting stronger and stronger. Today thee are a lot of solutions for alternative fuel use and production, most of the kits and solution found on the market are definitely working, safe and cut an incredible cost of fuel consumption.

This move to alternative fuel has got some big businesses thinking and suddenly we get a lot of advertisement for self making ethanol and ethanol distillation at home to sell to ethanol users. Since ethanol use is actually being promoted by official the production of the ethanol and ethanol distillation for the public may prove a little more complicated than the privet manufacturing and selling of ethanol, you have to remember that these are still dangerous materials you are working with and that bigger production will ultimately result in bigger machines and much more of these materials use.

There is no wonder that some fear that individuals will experiment with ethanol distillation, imagine someone storing gallons of dangerous explosive materials on their property and the unprofessional way of dealing with these materials. The quality of the final product is also in question, with no formal body governing and regulating the quality this may prove a dangerous product to use, and certainly to try and manipulate. The individual trying to produce ethanol will also need to go through the American Society of Testing and Materials that will show they way to make the right kind of product safely and how to use and keep the materials involved in the proper and safe way.

The self manufacturing and production of ethanol and the process of making ethanol from an ethanol distillation is not something a reasonable person will do, it involves getting permits and going through many check and regulation testing that it is simply not worth the time and effort by an individual, the making of ethanol will eventually result in some find of problem that will probably leave a very bad taste in the mouth of the person who gave this a shot.

For the individual this is a true revolution in the fuel market, you can just get a kit, study the making or buying ethanol basics and you will soon be a part of this revolution, you will probably discover that it is very possible to cut the raging fuel costs and spend it on nicer things, and that in a short time you will be completely independent of gas stations and gas use. The idea of making this a home business is not a very smart move, the licenses and taxes, permits and checks of your distillation station alone leaves you with a low chance of actually making it as an individual.

In any case a person considering to go into the ethanol distillation business would do good to first try and live with ethanol in the first place, so join the alternative fuel revolution and start using ethanol today.


