Title: 
Exhaust System in a Car

Word Count:
406

Summary:
Vehicles are considered as necessity. How could you arrive at your meeting on time? How could you transport your family for an outing? How could you haul your things?


Keywords:
exhaust system, stainless steel exhaust, exhaust back box


Article Body:
Basically, the said system works for three vital functions.  The first one is to move the used combustion gasses away from the engine into the outside air.  The second task is to ensure that the parts that surround the engine are on good shape. And its third task is to help the mufflers lessen the noise produced by the engine. Because of this imperative function that the system plays, designers labored most of their time in looking for means that could make all of its parts as competent as ever. 

In view of the fact that it is regarded as a system, it is made up of a variety of parts which include the down pipe, manifold, lambda sensors, catalytic converter, intermediate silence, front silencer, rear silencer, tail pipe, and mounting kit with its components. The exhaust manifold in particular conducts gases starting from the combustion chambers of the engine to the exhaust pipe. Usually, it is made up of cast iron and even curves to in the flow of exhaust. Furthermore, the resonator is the part which is considered to be a replica of the muffler. This is straight series of pipes made with sound muffling materials. The catalytic converter is tasked to lessen harmful emissions from engine exhaust. In addition, the exhaust pipe work to connect all parts of the system and although their role may seem simple, they are still highly vital for the proper operation of the whole. And to lessen the sound, the muffler is used.

Modern kind of vehicle nowadays make use of high-performance exhaust system that is equipped with one or two mufflers and tailpipes known as cat-back exhaust or dual exhaust system. This kind is better than the other because the vehicle’s breathing capacity is enhanced therefore it can lead to better horsepower production. Some vehicles also have added piping, tailpipes and mufflers which work to make it easier for the exhaust to flow without restraint as it also augments vehicle’s driving ability as well as lessens backpressure. Because of its function, it is right to conclude that a proper working exhaust system is required in any kind of vehicle. In fact, a vehicle cannot even do its usual function without this system. There are even some states that go after motorists who run on defective exhaust systems, and so extreme consideration must be taken in purchasing the precise exhaust system for your make and model.


