Title: 
Facts You Need To Know About The Hybrid Car

Word Count:
527

Summary:
The bottom line is that hybrid cars are effectively lowering the cost of powering a vehicle and keeping the Earth clean. Hybrid technology offers a highly effective way of moving from place to place.


Keywords:
hybrid car


Article Body:
The term "hybrid" means that something is mixed with its original form. The hybrid is a car that has both an electric and a gas motor to run it. But, unlike electric cars of yesteryear, the hybrid will recharge itself, hence no need to plug it into an outlet. 

The gasoline engines in these cars are smaller than in standard vehicles and where they leave off the electric engine takes over. The hybrid can work on just one of these engines, but hybrid owners will use both to conserve on fuel.

What's Under The Hood?

Most hybrids use the gasoline engine primarily. But when more power is needed, the electric motor kicks in. 

In the gasoline motor, there is energy conservation, for example, it instantly shuts off when the vehicle stops. When you hit the pedal again, the engine smoothly turns back on. Meanwhile, the battery keeps all of your appliances on -- lights, radio and other needed features. 

Because the gasoline engine cuts off and on, it is usually virtually silent. This can confuse the driver and parking attendants, who may think the car is off, but it is actually on. Fortunately, an indicator light has been added, showing the status of the engine. 

Benefits

One huge benefit of the hybrid is the fuel savings -- it offers up to 60 miles per gallon. Because of the high cost of gasoline, this makes the hybrid a very popular choice. 

Not only do they use less gas, though, they also emit fewer pollutants into the air. In fact, they are up to 90% cleaner than other vehicles. Because the engines are small and efficient, they reduce their total exhaust emissions. This makes them environmentally friendly.

There are many corporations offering incentives such as free parking to those who drive hybrids.

Plus, the US government in offering attractive tax incentives to lure new buyers who are on the fence. 

Construction

There are many differences between the hybrid and conventional cars. One is the construction of hybrids. Made of aluminum and plastic, they are lightweight in their design, which in turn makes them able to be powered by smaller, lighter engines. 

Many would fear that this offers less protection than other cars, but the fact is they are just as safe. Additional strength is created by manufacturers using panels in specialized shapes to reinforce the strength of the material to resist impact.

Who Makes Them?

The 2 major manufacturers are Honda Motors and Toyota Motor Corporation. They brought hybrid vehicles to the US in 2000. The first were the Honda Insight and the Toyota Prius. Both had great success. 

There are now plans for a sport utility vehicle to be made as well as full size trucks through hybrid mechanics. This will be quite popular to many drivers. The hybrids that are on the market are well liked. With all of the environmental issues today as well as the high cost of gas, there is no wonder why this is so. 

The bottom line is that hybrid cars are effectively lowering the cost of powering a vehicle and keeping the Earth clean. Hybrid technology offers a highly effective way of moving from place to place.


