Title: 
Fall and winter maintenance hints

Word Count:
400

Summary:
Fall and winter readyness of you car suv or truck


Keywords:
engine,brake,heater,defrost,transmission,tires


Article Body:
Fall and winter maintenance hints

Engine oil (level, colour) remember winter engine idling is hard on the oil 
Coolant (level, concentration of antifreeze, condition) depends where you live -45 celcius or -50 F is a good level. 
Transmission (fluid level, condition, leaks?) Has it been serviced recently? Is the colour of the fluid nice and red and how does it smell (ie: burned smell?)
Power steering fluid (level, condition) Same as transmission: check smell and colour.
Belts & hose (condition) check for crackes and/or frayed belts. Hoses and clamps, check for cracks and leaks 
Battery and battery cables (charge level, condition, corrosion) keep the battery clamps clean 
Spark plug wires (loose, damaged?) when was the last tune-up? Vehicles are harder to start in the winter 
Air filter- make sure to check with a light, if the light shines through the filter it is OK, clean filter by tapping against a wall 
Windshield washer fluid- be sure to install winter washer fluids. (you don't want a solid block of ice in your washer)
Under the Car

Exhaust system (leaks, damage)------- exhaust fumes can kill !!!!!! 
Steering (loose, worn or damaged parts) How much free-play in your steeringwheel? 
Suspension (ball joints, shocks, struts, springs) These parts can fall apart and you'll have no steering 
Ride height (ground clearance) look for broken exhaust pipes, mufler hanging down 
Motor mounts (inspect bushings for rips, cracks, breaks) These are harder to check, watch for excesive engine movement.
Outside the Car

Wiper blades (condition) winter blades prefered, these blades wont plug-up with snow and ice.(keeps the blade flat 
All lights (proper operation, angle of beam) include fog and driving lights 
Tires (very important) your life rides on these. All Wheel Drives (AWD) ALL FOUR TIRES....Same size and same brand! 
Studded snowtires Front Wheel Drive (FWD)  Studded tires all around, (this should prevent the backend of you vehicle trying to pass you on an icy road)
            Inside the Car
Brake pedal (tightness) if you have a spongy pedal you may have air in the system or worse brakepads and/or shoes worn. 
Brake and warning lights (bulb check) when you first start the vehicle these bulbs should light up for a few seconds 
Heater (proper operation) Sometimes heater cores plug-up and you wont have enough flow to heat inside or proper defrost 
Front and rear defrosters (proper operation) Rear window is electric, are all grids working?


