Title: 
Favorite Car Song and Why

Word Count:
468

Summary:
Favorite car songs and why.


Keywords:
car songs, lincoln continental, street rods, hot rods, car, numbers, matching car parts, matching vin numbers, restoration, car parts, cars, working on cars, showcase,


Article Body:
I have a number of favorites, however, my all time favorite is Hot Rod Lincoln by Commander Cody.

Since living in an extremely cold climate means taking your Corvette off the road in the winter months, a winter car is a must.

So in September we started looking for a car for winter and found a beauty, a 2 door dark green 1976 Lincoln Town Car, 5035 lbs with a nice big V-8 (460) that rode like a dream, and talk about hauling a**. I can still remember the night we picked it up. With only having the Corvette, Chuck did most of the driving. Since I hadn’t driven in a while, I told him to take it easy since I hadn’t driven in the dark for quite sometime. Well, anyone who has even driven this car knows that 30 feels like you are crawling and before you know it you are up to 50 or 60. So, yep, you guessed it, there we were on the back roads and Chuck is punching the Corvette to keep up with me. I was in heaven, with  all that horsepower and car around me again. Don’t get me wrong, I loved the Corvette, but since my first car was a 2 door 1962 Chevy Belair being in a big car again put me in seventh heaven, and this one was even bigger and faster than my first one. 

Of course when we got home Chuck had some choice words for me, however, it all turned out all right. And what a winter car it was, we never got stuck and believe you me Rochester gets a lot of snow. Watched many a car spin it’s wheels in the parking lot, while that big Lincoln plowed through it like it was nothing. Never missed a day of work in it either and it started up even at minus 40 and 50 wind chill, and the heat, ah the wonderful warm air it put out, just couldn’t beat it. It did yeoman service for us.

We had the Lincoln for our three remaining winters in Rochester, before moving out west. We sold it to a college student going to school in NJ. It was still in tip top shape, just some minor rust, which is  just part and parcel of living on the East coast with cold, snow and salt. 

Would love to find another, as we would snap it up in a minute. While not a hot rod Lincoln, it still brings back very very fond memories.

My other favorites, Little GTO,  409 (of course),  and the ultimate car song for those of us that live recklessly, Deadman’s Curve.

So tell us your favorite and why. If we get enough replies, we’ll dedicate a section of the web site to car song favorites. 

DeFiore Enterprises, Copyright 2005


