Title: 
Finding a Car Loan in Canada

Word Count:
316

Summary:
Auto loans are as a part of the car buying experience as finding the right vehicle itself.  In fact, many consumers will often investigate financing options before they begin searching for their new vehicle in earnest.


Keywords:
car loan canada, auto loans


Article Body:
If you are in the market for a new vehicle chances are you have been shopping around for the best finance package to fit your car-buying needs.  Residents of Canada have several options when it comes to finding the right lender for their car loan and by investing a little bit of time in doing research and comparison shopping they can often cut as much as 1-2 percentage points off their financing.

Auto loans are as a part of the car buying experience as finding the right vehicle itself.  In fact, many consumers will often investigate financing options before they begin searching for their new vehicle in earnest.  There are a number of factors that influence the rates you will receive when looking for vehicle financing.  These include such things as credit rating, length of the loan, down payment and vehicle type.  By doing a little legwork up front you can be an informed consumer as you explore your financing options.

First, since auto financing is based on a fixed-interest loan you will be paying the same amount of finance charges no matter if you pay it off early or make regular payments as scheduled.  As such it pays to finance the least amount as possible when taking out a loan to buy a new vehicle.  Consider making a large down payment, trading in older vehicles or looking at vehicles that aren't as expensive when car shopping.  The money you save in finance charges could very well help you upgrade to a higher model vehicle on your next purchase.

The best source for an auto loan may be your local bank or credit union.  Often with established customers they will offer a discount in the interest rate in order to keep your business in-house.  Failing that take your search online where hundreds of finance companies will actively compete to get you to sign on the dotted line.


