Title: 
Finding the Right Sources for Used Cars

Word Count:
546

Summary:
There are several excellent sources for buying used cars.  Some of the best and sought after sources are the newspaper classifieds, car auctions, and car buying guides and used car dealers. This article lists out a few important sources where we can search for availability of used cars.


Keywords:
used cars, cheap used cars, new cars, buy used car, sell used car, used car pricing, used car values, used cars for sale, used car tips


Article Body:
There are several excellent sources for buying used cars.  Some of the best and sought after sources are the newspaper classifieds, car auctions, and car buying guides and used car dealers.

<b>Newspaper classified advertisements: </b> Local newspapers can be a good source of information for purchasing used cars.  The prices of the listed cars are comparatively lower than the car retail prices.  Auto sellers advertise to find buyers and the buyers too benefit by buying used car for a lesser price than the retail price of the car.  Since there are no middlemen involved the purchaser saves lot of money.  

<b>Guides for buying cars: </b> There are many online guides, which list the cars for sale in the particular area with the features of the car.  A buyer can search from the list of available cars with the features to suit his needs.  A vehicle history report can also be got from these guides making the source a reliable and lucrative one.  Some of the reputed online car guides will provide all the necessary information pertaining to the used car listed for the convenience of the buyer to make a deal comfortably sitting at home.

<b>Car auctions: </b> There are many kinds of car auctions available for the car purchaser.  Some are listed below:

Public car auctions include cars repossessed by the financial institutions, banks and lending firms.  The cars can be bought at wholesale prices from such kind of auctions.  Generally these auctions are limited to people who possess dealer’s license, but these are however open to all.

Bankruptcy auctions allow cars to be purchased at rock bottom prices and it is also considered as one of the best sources for buying used cars.  Such kind of auctions can be checked in the classifieds of the newspapers.

Government auctions sell used cars from various government departments such as the housing and urban development department, postal service department, police department, defense department, IRS, FBI etc.  Good quality cars can be got at a best deal.

Car rental companies renew their rental cars every now and then, and their used cars are sold in auctions.  Such car rental companies can be located in the neighborhood or can be found on the Internet by searching their websites.

Many car dealers too sell the used cars at prices lower than the wholesale rates.  But many of the auctions need the bidder to have a dealer’s license to participate in the bid.

There are many online used car websites who provide all the information regarding the cars.  It is considered as the easiest, comfortable and quickest way to buy used cars.  But then people do not rely on the credibility of buying used cars online since there are lots of bogus websites.  Care has to be taken while selecting the online car dealer or selling company as their credibility and reputation has to be checked thoroughly.

Purchasing used cars from new car dealers is the safest. As they sell used cars in a good condition, the price of the cars may be a little more than the above-mentioned sources.  If the purchaser is very particular about the quality and reliability of the used cars, the best place to buy is from the new car dealer.


