Title: 
First MINI GP Presented To New Owner

Word Count:
377

Summary:
The very first MINI GP was already sent out and handed over to its new owner. Paul Baker now owns the very first MINI GP in the United Kingdom.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mini,MINI parts,MINI accessories


Article Body:
The very first MINI GP was already sent out and handed over to its new owner. Paul Baker now owns the very first MINI GP in the United Kingdom. In fact, Baker also was the very first person to actually place an order for such a coveted vehicle. Mike Cooper of MINI personally handed over the keys to Baker. 

MINI is a brand that is under the BMW company. This brand has been produced since 2001 up until the present. MINI is an entrant to the supermini or the hot hatch class and its vehicle models have been created in two body styles – a hatchback with three doors and a convertible that holds two. Because this vehicle brand has already been sending out cars to our roads and streets since 2001, owners can easily find MINI parts anywhere so maintaining the vehicle is not a problem. 

So when Paul Baker heard about the very first rumors about the MINI GP, he rushed over to the nearest MINI local dealer in his area and signed up his name for one. The rumors were that MINI was already starting up the production of the MINI GP which was proclaimed to be the fasted production vehicle from the brand. 

Now, Baker is overjoyed with his new car. He even exclaims, “It looks even better in the metal than the photos. When I heard the rumor, I couldn’t resist ordering the fasted, most powerful production MINI. I’m looking forward to driving it to my local pub, sitting in the front garden, and showing it off to my mates. I’ll be keeping this car a long time, and no I’m not going to sell it on Ebay!”

Of course, MINI was astounded by Baker’s excitement towards owning the very first MINI GP. The MINI GP has been produced in only a small quantity – 500 units to be exact. And Baker has received two of these. You see, because Baker was the first one to order the vehicle, MINI also awarded him with another MINI GP for his loyalty. Meaning, only 498 units of the MINI GP now is left. As for the rest of the world, 1500 units are scattered all around the globe. And yes, all of these are already sold.


