Title: 
Five Things to Consider When Purchasing a Turbo Kit

Word Count:
517

Summary:
When you are ready to invest in a turbo kit, you want to be confident that you are getting all the parts and components you need to give your ride the power you’ve been craving. It is natural that you have a lot of questions and could use some direction when it’s time to make your purchase.


Keywords:
Turbo Kit, Intercooler, Turbo Kits


Article Body:
When you are ready to invest in a turbo kit, you want to be confident that you are getting all the parts and components you need to give your ride the power you’ve been craving. It is natural that you have a lot of questions and could use some direction when it’s time to make your purchase. That’s where EPS Turbos comes in—read on for the top five tips on buying a turbo kit that will provide you with all that you’re looking for. 

No. 1—Is It All There?

Check to make sure that all the parts, fittings, clamps, silicone hoses, and fuel and timing management components are included, in addition to the major components. In short, verify that this is a complete kit that contains everything you will need to correctly install it. 

No. 2—It’s All Ball Bearings

Find a kit with a ball bearing turbo, which is much more durable and exhibits more longevity than a standard thrust bearing turbo. BB turbos reduce the spool time of the turbo as well, resulting in less turbo lag. Ceramic ball bearings are rated indestructible and don’t retain heat, making them the most common types. Ball bearing turbos are generally accepted as the industry standard for strong, long-lasting turbos. 

No. 3—Nothing’s Cooler than an Intercooler

Ensure that your kit includes an intercooler. Since most turbo kits run in a range of forced induction between 6 and 9 psi and are powered by spent exhaust gasses, most generate an enormous amount of heated air. The intercooler uses the ambient air being forced at the car while driving to cool this heated air produced by the turbo. Cooled air becomes compressed, and the more air kept at the same relative PSI, the more can be forced into the motor. Keeping the motor cooler makes it not only more efficient and safe—but also provides more power. 

No. 4—Do Your System a Favor with a Blow-Off Valve

A blow-off valve should also be included in your turbo kit. This valve expels the unused air that is caught in the charge pipe in between shifts or when idling down. This will allow the air that is being forced into the motor from the turbo to be caught in the charge pipe when the throttle body closes. Rather than the air traveling back to the turbo and potentially causing damage, the air is expelled through a valve into the atmosphere. The blow-off valve thus clears the system and prepares it for the next charge of air. 

No. 5—I’m Not Paying for That!

Turbos are high-stress components, so it is crucial that you are covered in the event of malfunctions. From oiling problems to installation errors, components can be placed in jeopardy. You don’t want to spend more of your hard-earned money to replace components, so a strong warranty can offer you the peace of mind of knowing that your investment is covered. Unfortunately, very few turbo companies offer warranties—especially on turbos—but if you look hard enough, you can find some, such as Turbonetics.


