Title: 
Flat Tires Need Not Be A Burden

Word Count:
369

Summary:
When your car’s tires go flat, this kind of situation should not be a burden for you. After all, most cars already come with spare tires and a jack, along with other odds and ends that would help you facilitate changing your tires in no time at all.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda parts,Mazda MX3 parts,Mazda MX6 parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
When your car’s tires go flat, this kind of situation should not be a burden for you. After all, most cars already come with spare tires and a jack, along with other odds and ends that would help you facilitate changing your tires in no time at all. 

To change a tire or a couple of tires, park your car first in an area where the ground is level. Do not forget to put on the parking brake. If your car is equipped with a manual transmission system, place it in gear. Turn off your engine for there is no need for it to be turned on and running. However, if you have parked in an area where there is an incline, put a huge rock or a wheel chock beneath the opposing wheel so that you would not find your car rolling down the incline. 

This is now the time to take out your spare tire as well as a tire iron and the jack. If you have to remove a hubcap, do such. Then, loosen the lug nuts on your wheel. Do this before you place the jack in your car. Make sure that you loosen each and every lug nut that connects your tire to the wheel. But do not unscrew them completely. As long as the lug nuts are loosened up and not unscrewed completely, that would do. 

Then, start jacking up your vehicle. To be safe, check your car owner’s manual for the specifics on the location as per where you should put your jack. And when you jack your car, make sure that you raise your car a little higher so that you can not only remove the old flat tire but you can also put in the new tire. 

When the car has been jacked up fine, you can now unscrew completely the lug nuts. And after this, you can remove the flat tire. Get out your new tire and put it where the old one was. Then, place back the lug nuts and tighten them up. 

After this, you can now lower the jack and remove it. If you have a hubcap, you can now put it back on.


