Title: 
Flat Tire Fix It

Word Count:
381

Summary:
Flat tires are one of the most common troubles that car owners and vehicle drivers encounter. This happens mostly when the owner or the driver do not give much attention to the car’s tires. Keeping your cool when your car’s tire runs flat would help you out a lot. After all, the situation could be remedied in no time at all.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lincoln,Lincoln parts,Lincoln Mark VI parts,Lincoln accessories


Article Body:
Flat tires are one of the most common troubles that car owners and vehicle drivers encounter. This happens mostly when the owner or the driver do not give much attention to the car’s tires. Keeping your cool when your car’s tire runs flat would help you out a lot. After all, the situation could be remedied in no time at all. 

First off, you should turn your car’s flashers on as you slowly pull of the road. Make sure that you park your car in an area which is away from any traffic. But it is also important that you are visible from the road and not secluded. If possible, try to find an area that is flat and level. Parking on inclines could make changing your flat tire quite a challenge. When you have already found your spot and have safely parked your car, make sure that you do inform other motorists that you are in some kind of car trouble. Put up your flares. 

Your car could actually roll while you are trying to fix the flat tire so it is important that you put on the hand brake of your vehicle. Also, put the transmission of your vehicle in park or in gear. And when you have done so, start collecting the items you would need to change the tire – the spare tire, a leverage pipe, the jack, and a lug nut wrench. And before you start tinkering with the flat tire, place a large rock or a huge piece of wood beneath all the other wheels so that your car would certainly not roll. 

Loosen the lug nuts on your flat tire using the lug nut wrench. This should be done by turning the tool counterclockwise. Loosen them but do not completely remove them. And when all are loose, then is the time to jack your car up. Make sure that the car is elevated slightly greater so that the new and full tire could fit in when you put it in. Then remove the loosened lug nuts. You can now remove the flat tire and put the new spare on. Tighten the lug nuts and make sure that everything is tight. You can put down the jack and certainly be on your way.


