Title: 
Ford Aspire: More Than Just As Aspiration

Word Count:
492

Summary:
Upon its introduction in 1994, the Ford Aspire held a five speed manual transmission as well as an automatic transmission. The average fuel economy for the Ford Aspire is some 30 miles per gallon which is quite a different number from what the manual says. This was a subcompact car that has been made available with two options as per the number of doors.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford Aspire accessories,climate control,service tools,transmission parts,Ford Aspire


Article Body:
From 1994 up until the year 1997, the Ford Motor Company sold the Ford Aspire. This was a subcompact car that has been made available with two options as per the number of doors. One held three doors while the other one held five doors. The entire body of the Ford Aspire was crafted by the Kia Motors company with headquarters in South Korea. The engine as well as the engine components was from the Mazda automobile corporation located in Japan. It is very interesting to note that this vehicle has been sold and marketed as the Kia Avella in Asia. However, if you travel to Japan and Australasia, you would be surprised to find out that the Ford Aspire is known there as the Ford Festiva. It is just one vehicle however it has been sold under different names. 

The average fuel economy for the Ford Aspire is some 30 miles per gallon which is quite a different number from what the manual says. The manual claims that it can take up to 45 miles per galloon. Aside from that interesting fact, the Ford Aspire is also very much favored for parallel parking. Also known for their resistance to submit to mechanical breakdown, these Ford Aspires have been known to have the capacity to run in excess of some 200,000 miles without having to undergo major repairs. 

Upon its introduction in 1994, the Ford Aspire held a five speed manual transmission as well as an automatic transmission. This vehicle is a front drive car. It generally comes with a 63 horsepower engine with four cylinders. For the two-door model, the Ford Aspire sports fog lights, a rear spoiler as well as different types of seats made available. As per the Ford Aspire that sports four doors, it holds a power rack and pinion steering. Through the years, many changes have been done to the Ford Aspire. The list includes the removal of the front spoilers, and adding in of body-colored window moldings, rear spoilers, fog lamps, tachometer, a unique instrument cluster, special seat fabrics, special door trim fabrics, and center roof pillars. There also are changes like new front bumpers, new rear bumpers, headlamps, turn signals, tail lamps, and wheel covers. Its design has been proven to work well in allowing a fairly large amount of cargo. If the rear seats are folded, the cargo is expanded greatly. 

Ford Parts and Ford Auto Parts manufactures and sells performance parts and accessories for Ford vehicles. Ford Parts and Ford Auto Parts strives to be the ultimate source for auto parts and accessories for the Ford Aspire as well as for Ford vehicles. The store’s product line up for the Ford Aspire accessories, body parts, brakes, climate control, clutch parts, electrical parts, transmission parts, mechanical parts, service tools,  and a variety of other upgrades and parts that compliment the vehicle. Ford Parts and Ford Auto Parts’ extensive array of maximum quality Ford parts are available at great wholesale deals.


