Title: 
Ford Bronco II: Shining Through Despite Criticisms

Word Count:
343

Summary:
Sold between the years 1984 to 1990, the Ford Bronco II was built and manufactured to be a compact sport utility vehicle. It was actually built to be a compact complement of the full sized Ford Bronco.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford bronco,Ford parts,accessories,brakes,cooling system parts,fuel system parts


Article Body:
Sold between the years 1984 to 1990, the Ford Bronco II was built and manufactured to be a compact sport utility vehicle. It was actually built to be a compact complement of the full sized Ford Bronco. It was also targeted so as to be the direct competitor to the Chevrolet S 10 Blazer and the Jeep Cherokee. 

This vehicle held a 94 inch wheelbase that was very similar to the Volkswagen Beetle. The mechanical parts were very much similar to the Ford Ranger pickup’s mechanical components. The first models came out equipped with a 2.8 liter V6 engine which was very much similar to the 2.8 liter engine that was used in the Ford vehicles marketed and sold in Europe. Come the year 1986, the Ford Bronco II came introduced with a 2.9 liter EFI V6. It has been said that this engine was doomed from the beginning with design flaws. This engine often suffered from premature cylinder head failure and loss of valve train lubrication as well. This happened when the valve train lubrication was not rigorously maintained. However, Ford was able to see this flaw immediately and it acted upon changing or correcting this flaw in the soonest time possible. Come 1989, this mistake was already corrected. However, the Ford Bronco II had already accumulated unattractive comments and a not so good reputation to potential buyers. These buyers were concerned about the safety of this vehicle. 

This vehicle has also been reputed to tip over during some situations because of the high center of gravity. Later on in 1991, the Ford Bronco II platform underwent a major redesign and was released to be wider and longer. However, despite the bad kind of reputation that this vehicle received, the Ford Bronco II still continued to be actively sought by customers and patrons who are looking for a cheap, solid and compact sports utility vehicle. Of course, these buyers would have to do some work on it but the replacement parts and engine could be found easily for the Ford Bronco II could have an engine swap with the Ford Ranger.


