Title: 
Ford Econoline Van: In Production Since 1961

Word Count:
324

Summary:
The Ford Econoline Van is already on its fourth generation of versions for this vehicle. The first generation was known for it became a success for utility companies that included the Bell Telephone System.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford Econoline,Ford parts,Ford accessories,clutch parts,fuel injection parts


Article Body:
The rest of the world knows this line of vehicles from the Ford Motor Company as the Ford Econoline Van or the Ford E series. However, if you travel to the Philippines, you would then know that in this region and area, the Ford Econoline Van is marketed and known as the Ford Chateau Wagon. Take a closer look though and you would notice that the Ford Chateau Wagon is just a similar vehicle but has its differences with the Ford Econoline Van. 

1961 was the year that the production of the Ford Econoline Van started. It was manufactured to be a full size van and it was mounted and crafted using the FR VN platform. Competition for this van includes the Chevrolet Express, the GMC Savana, the Dodge Sprinter, the Mercedes Benz Sprinter, and the Freightliner Sprinter. This line of full size vans were made for both cargo and passenger transportation. Looking at Ford’s line up for vehicles, the Ford Econoline Van and the whole Ford E series is very much related to the company’s F series which is a line of pick up trucks. 

The Ford Econoline Van is already on its fourth generation of versions for this vehicle. The first generation was known for it became a success for utility companies that included the Bell Telephone System. It was then a cargo van and could take in eight passengers inside. As per the second generation of Ford Econoline Vans, the engine was now moved from the rear up to the front. In 1975, the third generation came about. It held more ergonomic controls as well as a full frame design. Come 1983, the logo of Ford that was a blue oval was now integrated into the front grille of the van. The fourth generation came in 1992 and this was a redesigned version. This time around, the Ford Econoline Van came with a vast choice of engines for patrons’ various preferences and needs.


