Title: 
Ford Bronco: More Than Just OJ Simpson’s Speed Chase Vehicle

Word Count:
334

Summary:
Why is the Ford Bronco so well known? Well let us just say that it was the very same vehicle model that the infamous OJ Simpson used when he traveled during his low speed chase with the police through the Los Angeles Area. It was also the very same white Ford Bronco that was a 1993 model used by Al Cowlings.


Keywords:
auto parts,ford Bronco,Ford parts,Ford Bronco parts,ford accessories,drive belts,transmission parts,cooling system


Article Body:
Starting from the year 1966 up until 1996, the Ford Bronco lived for a good three decades. This vehicle is actually a 4 x 4 sport utility vehicle. And it has had four distinct generations. 

Originally, this vehicle was designed and crafted with being a strict competitor in mind. And come the time that it was introduced, it was then competitor to the Jeep CJ 5 as well as the International Harvester Scout. Come the late 1970s, the Ford Bronco then came to be a competitor for the Chevrolet K5 Blazer as well as the Dodge Ramcharger. Come the 1980s, this vehicle was accompanied by a much smaller Ford Bronco II. However, this small sibling only stayed in the market for just a couple of years. As for its last generation, the world knew the Ford Bronco as a large vehicle that was based on the newer Ford F series. 

Why is the Ford Bronco so well known? Well let us just say that it was the very same vehicle model that the infamous OJ Simpson used when he traveled during his low speed chase with the police through the Los Angeles Area. It was also the very same white Ford Bronco that was a 1993 model used by Al Cowlings. Now that is the Ford Bronco in popular culture for you. 

The person who gave the Ford Bronco life was Ford’s product manager Donald N. Frey. Frey was also the very same person who designed the Ford Mustang. After the design comes the production and it was Lee Iacocca who got this vehicle ready to roll of the manufacturing and assembly plants. A unique vehicle on its own, the Ford Bronco did not share any part with any other vehicle. 

According to J. Mays, Ford Motor Company group’s vice president for design, “True to its heritage, the Bronco is a tough and genuine SUV that’s all about function. It’s like a claw hammer in a box full of department store, battery operated, plastic, power tools.”


