Title: 
Ford Super Chips: Are They Worth It?

Word Count:
525

Summary:
Super chips give more power, but are they worth it? Read on, you decide!


Keywords:
superchip, super chip, performance parts, auto parts, Ford chips, GM chips, Dodge chips, Jeep chips


Article Body:
Your Ford Mustang is a true pony car. A coupe with class and no other car on the road is like it. Heck, GM abandoned the Camaro and Firebird while Mustang sales continue to surge. Could it be that Mustang owners know a good thing when they drive it? You bet! Still, maybe you have considered ways to ratchet up the performance. Even with a V8 installed, perhaps you could squeeze out more power from an already potent engine? If that is the case for you a superchip may be right. However, are they worth it?  Let’s take a look at these little technological wonders and see if a super chip is what you really want.

So, exactly how does a superchip work? That’s easy! Every car comes with a computer chip – much like the one the central processing chip that powers your computer. Your stock chip helps to regulate a bunch of things including fuel flow to your engine, horsepower, torque, etc. Unfortunately, stock chips aren’t maximized for performance so the chip you get isn’t necessarily conducive to enhancing power.

<b>Enter the Super Chip!</b>

A Superchip or “Super Chip” puts the muscle into your chip. Either through completely replacing your current chip with a performance chip or sending out your chip to be modified, the end result is a tiny little device packed with more power. In actuality, the power isn’t in your Ford Super Chip, instead it is in the instructions that the chip contains.

The Super Chip is modified to help boost horsepower, increase torque, and raise fuel mileage. So how can fuel mileage improve…shouldn’t it actually drop with more power? Well, the short answer is no. Because a superchip works to fine tune your engine, a better tuned engine requires less fuel. Because a super chip manages to work so precisely it can deliver on all three areas – better horsepower, more torque, and improved fuel economy – without compromise. This means you get a more potent car that is also more fuel efficient.

So, back to the original question: are they worth it? Well, that is for you to decide. However, if keeping your current car is your goal then for a few hundred bucks a super chip is a smart idea. No need to trade your car in for a new, pricey model. Simply take your existing car and supercharge it.

When shopping for a super chip you must be aware that the chips are developed with your specific make/model of car in mind…all the way down to the type of engine underneath the hood. Some manufacturers of Ford super chips or other famous maker chips require you to take out your current chip and overnight it to the chip manufacturer, get it modified, and have it overnighted back to you. In this case your car would be out of commission for 2 or 3 days.

On the other hand, some manufacturers simply swap out your stock chip with a new one. That all depends on which chip model you select and the price you are willing to pay for your superchip.


