Title: 
Ford Reflex Is A Deft Concept with Universal Appeal

Word Count:
341

Summary:
This article tells the reader about the Ford Reflex Hybrid and what the consumer can expect from this vehicle.


Keywords:
luxury, luxury cars, exotic cars, luxury car rental, exotic car rental


Article Body:
Perhaps it is not the do all to end all, but it is a very progressive step in that direction by the Ford Motor Company. The Reflex is hybrid concept car powered by diesel fuel and electricity. Since it is sporty, ecologically friendly, and performs well, it is easy to see how it could turn out to be among tomorrow's most desirable automobiles. A sports car that seats three comfortably and gets 65 miles per gallon would probably attract a lot of interest. 

The Reflex is a sight for the eyes of sports car lovers with its reverse-scissor doors, 20-inch wheels, and rounded front and rear body contour. Let the drooling begin, as the Reflex elicits thoughts of a merged design inspired by a Lamborghini/Porsche coupling. Its exposed circuitry is an integral component to its flashy futuristic design. The car's stylish 20-inch aerodynamic wheels promote high performance and due to less resistance when rolling. There are solar panels positioned around the headlights and taillights of the Reflex that recharge the vehicle's batteries. The transmission is six-speed semi-automatic with shift paddles on the steering column. 

The interior features see-through mesh seating with inflatable safety belts. The thinly constructed seats are built from a rigid plastic composite that contour well to the body while maximizing space. Two children or one adult can comfortably ride in the backseat area. The rear seat is adaptable and can be used for infants. The vehicle also has a baby cam to assure a child's safety and ensure safer driving too. No wood or leather is used in the cabinet's interior. Sound insulation is provided by recycled scrap of athletic shoes called NikeGrind. The eye-appealing dashboard has an LED screen that is both flexible and transparent. 

The South East Automotive Media Organization (SEAMO) named the Ford Reflex Specialty Concept Vehicle of the Year and Most Significant Concept Vehicle of the Year. The Reflex was unveiled at the 2006 North American International Auto Show in Detroit. 

The Ford Reflex grows with a family's evolving needs. It looks like a keeper.


