Title: 
Forgiato Designs is Bling for Your Car

Word Count:
333

Summary:
This article tells the reader about the Forgiato rims and the luxury they provide to drivers.


Keywords:
luxury, luxury cars, exotic cars, luxury car rental, exotic car rental


Article Body:
As a manufacturer of custom wheels, Forgiato Designs has proven to deliver top-of-the-line wheels while incorporating state-of-the-art technologies. Though the company is based in Arleta, California, its roots lay elsewhere. 
Founded by brothers, AC and Norman Celick, Forgiato Designs continues the Italian tradition of their first endeavor, D'Vinci. Once Forgiato Designs was up and running in 2006, the brothers decided to sell D'Vinci in order to focus their attention on manufacturing wheels for only the most luxurious vehicles. While Lamborghinis, Bentleys, Ferraris, and Porsches are all easy on the eyes, the added bling is achieved in the details. And though the company name may be fresh, the experience behind Forgiato Designs extends far beyond anything ordinary.

Forged aluminum is used to fabricate custom three-piece wheels— the front lip, the inner rim, and the forged 6061tc heat-treated centers. The wheels' centers are constructed from aerospace grade aluminum, which is the same alloy found in jets and advanced aeronautical and weapon systems. 

In English, Forgiato means "forged," which refers to the process of shaping materials under heat and pressure. With AC's background as a diamond setter and Norman's experience as a goldsmith, the natural process of forging was all too familiar for the Celicks.

Forgiato Designs has earned credibility as a purveyor of luxury wheels, in part, due to its market introduction of black lips and 6.5-inch lips. In addition to introducing new concepts, Forgiato Designs sets the bar high with its 3-inch thick center forgings, while the industry standard remains a mere 1-inch. 

Forgiato Wheels are arguably the highest quality of wheels available on the market today. The price of such quality and craftsmanship can cost a pretty penny, and with prices reaching industry peaks, there are many online dealers claiming to sell Forgiato wheels at remarkably low prices. However, as the Web site warns, there are less than 50 authorized resellers worldwide. Therefore, you may have to splurge a little and buy directly from the company in order to guarantee you're buying genuine Forgiato wheels.


