Title: 
Fuel Up Your Car

Word Count:
310

Summary:
Your car’s fuel is very much capable of releasing energy. That is very much why it is used to make your car run and gives you the chance to drive to any destination you choose to go to.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lincoln,Lincoln LS parts,Lincoln Mark V parts,Lincoln parts,Lincoln accessories


Article Body:
What component of your car makes it run so much so that when it empties out you can find yourself stranded somewhere? 

Well, fuel of course. 

Your car’s fuel is very much capable of releasing energy. That is very much why it is used to make your car run and gives you the chance to drive to any destination you choose to go to. The release of its energy actually comes out when its main chemical structure is changed or converted. Most of the changing and conversion of your car’s fuel happens under your car’s hood. 

With a very high number of fuel types and kinds available in the market right now, which one do you choose? Remember that your choices range from a wide line up of fuel grades, octane levels, as well as additives. These are readily available for customers at gas stations near you. Now, your dilemma right now is which fuel you would choose to fill up your car’s gas tank. 

According to automobile experts, the very first thing to do if you are undecided or if you do not have any idea as per the type or kind of fuel to purchase for your vehicle is to actually go bring out your car owner’s manual. Your car owner’s manual holds vital and essential information about your car and everything included in it. And it certainly includes the type of fuel that would make your car run best and which is recommended. Most modern cars run on the regular unleaded fuel with an 87 octane rating. 

If you want to add in premium fuel, you can always do so. However, it would be best if you stuck with the recommended fuel. The only time that you should try premium fuel is when your engine is pinging or is making knocking sounds.


