Title: 
Fuel-Efficient Ford Cars: The New Trend

Word Count:
293

Summary:
With gas prices soaring straight into oblivion, automobile customers and the rest of the auto market are looking for vehicles that would save their pockets from getting into trouble.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford,Ford Explorer parts,Ford accessories,Ford parts


Article Body:
With gas prices soaring straight into oblivion, automobile customers and the rest of the auto market are looking for vehicles that would save their pockets from getting into trouble. Studies and research have found out that the numbers are showing that customers are leaning towards those vehicles that would assure them that they would not have to spend much on gas. 

The market is actually looking for vehicles with smaller engines. This is because with smaller engines, owners would not need to have to refuel much for these types of engines only consumes a little amount of gas. This is actually a trend that has been seen in the sales of two Ford Motor Company vehicles – Ford Fusion and Mercury Milan. According to the sales of both vehicles, starting January up until the middle of May this year, the sales of these vehicles that held four-cylinder models almost doubled. In fact, sales for both have taken more than 20 per cent of all Ford vehicles’ sales. 

George Pipas, the manager of Ford’s Sales Analysis, states, “Along with the Fusion and Milan, the increase also includes Focus and Escape. Clearly, higher gas prices are increasing consumer demand to look at more fuel-efficient vehicles and powertrains.” Indeed, the whole analysis shows that the auto market is now turning towards vehicles that are more efficient when it comes to fuel mileage. Of course, it also shows that people are becoming concerned and are becoming greatly affected by the whole gas price surge. 

Pipas adds, “For February of this year, the Fusion’s rate for the I4 was 41 percent, meaning that 59 percent of Fusion sales were for models with a V6. In March, the four-cylinder rate rose to 47 percent, and in April the rate jumped to 53 percent.”


