Title: 
Get The Best Car For You, Over The Web

Word Count:
1044

Summary:
A car finder is a person who asks what you need, what you can pay and then finds all the suitable options for you.  The choice in the end is yours and of course everyone wants the best.  So who decides?  You do.


Keywords:
Car, Dealer, Driving, Driver, Drivers License, Car Finder


Article Body:
A car finder is a person who asks what you need, what you can pay and then finds all the suitable options for you.  The choice in the end is yours and of course everyone wants the best.  So who decides?  You do.  Who knows what the best is?  You do.  But the question of which cars one has access to or not, that is the job of the car finder.

Finding the car of your dreams is not as easy as looking into a magazine and saying "Hey! That’s my dream car!"  Of course we can all "want" a dream car, but do we really have access to that car right now?  Maybe yes, maybe no, what will determine the answer are what your total current savings are and the constant flow of your income.

When you tell the bank or the car dealer how much you make and what your profession is, there is a real reason for that; the reason is money.  People don’t become wealthy by giving their wealth away, they become wealthy by knowing who and what will "make" money, otherwise, there wouldn’t even be any cars around to drive, banks to lend money from or car dealers to "haggle" prices with.

By trusting a car finder they do something that the bank won’t do, they find "all" the possible options.  A car dealer has only so many options, while a car finder has a network of car dealers that they know and a good idea of what kinds of makes, years and models each dealer is carrying in any given season.

If you have a job, one that you are sure you will have until the end of the payments or at least a better job until then, it should consequently be easy to find almost a plethora of options. The secret to the acquisition of a new car is knowing first of all, that you plan on making an investment and secondly, live off of less than you make.

In the case of a new car you must determine what level of "frugality" you are either willing to live with or actually "are" able to live with.  Most people today have living expenses that are equal to or even more than they actually make.  If your flow of income is equal to or even less than what you are spending, you need to determine to yourself or those that you support, that a new car is going to be worth the sacrifice of actually "tightening your belt a little."

If, for example, a person is making enough money to live and enough money to go out to the movies while partying all weekend long, but right before every pay check they seem to be coming up broke again, something has to be budgeted.  That is the first and most important key to buying a new car, a budget.

If a person wants a Lamborghini, yet they work minimum wage, then first they need to have the ability to budget their money well. A Lamborghini would be way too expensive for someone working "just" on minimum wage, even "almost" impossible.  As incredible as that seems, nothing is "completely" impossible.  One need but know how to administer their wealth and the flow of their wealth, so as to constantly "make it grow" over time through proper investment.

A budget would be a start, but then comes "investment."  A well kept automotive can be an excellent investment, if a car finder is well consulted about your intentions first.  The main reason for this is the so called "haggling price."  The dealer always has an "acceptable range of profit" and that range must be known in order to be fair both with the salesperson as well as with the person buying the car.

Every product on the market has an original "cost of production" and a predetermined "profit margin" for the industrialist to actually make his own wealth multiply and the car dealer wants to multiply wealth too.

The dealer’s job, however, is not just to find people to sell a car to, but to sell it for "as much as" people will "possibly" pay for it.  Haggling, means discovering the absolute "minimum range of acceptable profit margin," for both the dealer and the salesperson.

Car finders know the perfect and most "honorable" range of acceptable profit margins for all the models of every make of car their network of dealers provide, that’s part of their job. Honorable car finders do honest work because in the world of money making "everyone has to tighten their belts in order to make money wisely."

A wise car finder does his job well, because it earns her or him not only money, but respect, loyalty and the kind of wealth that money just cannot buy, honor.

Of course once we buy a car, the value immediately goes down. But if we can buy a nice automobile now for an "honorable price," sell it or trade it in for something a little more comfortable in two years time at an "honorable price," this will continue until soon we actually have invested so well, that we are actually able to buy our "dream" car.

The car finder knows the ropes of their trade.  They are wise in the ways of making money and can put you directly in contact with the right dealer for your needs.  In the world of advice, everyone will give it out for free, but who you listen to, that is the trick.  Wisdom comes from those who know their trade and you can’t expect good advice about precious gems from a bricklayer.  If you can expect an honest bricklayer to know about bricklaying then you can certainly expect an honest car finder to know about finding an honest deal on the perfect car for you.

Get the best car for you, over the web

What is the best?  Who decides?  How much will you end up paying at the end of the deal?  Online, honorable dealers are hard to find and the best deal for you is one that satisfies your needs for the now and helps you make an investment for the future.


