Title: 
Get A Top Notch Used Car

Word Count:
450

Summary:
It doesn’t have to be a hard task to buy a second hand car. Knowing what you’re doing of course helps quite a bit. So read and following these following tips on inspecting a used car, for you never know when they will come in handy. 

Fits you should inspect the exterior of the vehicle. Look at the condition of the paint. If you notice that it could be new paint, which can you a clue that the vehicle might have been in an accident. Which is not such a good thing, also be on...


Keywords:



Article Body:
It doesn’t have to be a hard task to buy a second hand car. Knowing what you’re doing of course helps quite a bit. So read and following these following tips on inspecting a used car, for you never know when they will come in handy. 

Fits you should inspect the exterior of the vehicle. Look at the condition of the paint. If you notice that it could be new paint, which can you a clue that the vehicle might have been in an accident. Which is not such a good thing, also be on the look out for any rust on the exterior of the car. 

When inspecting the exterior look to see if the vehicle is leveled. If it looks like it sags to one side it could mean the frame or spring is damaged. Also check out the tires, see if their in good condition and inflated. 

Then check to see if all the lights, blinkers and tail light all work and are not damaged. Finally take a look at all the other exterior parts such as the disc brakes, mirrors, glass, wheel rims etc. 

The second step would be to check out the interior of the vehicle. First off, check to see if there are any unusually odors. It might be hard to remove an unpleasant odor. Make sure you can tolerate the smell of the car. 

Look at the condition of the interior, look at how stained or well kept it is. Finally check to see if all the mechanical controls are working. Check the seats, windows, radio, windshield wiper and seat belt controls, you want to make sure that everything works and is in good condition. 

The trunk is also something that you take a look at. It is probably the most over looked. You should see any signs of rust or water due to cracks or holes. 

The last but no least is checking under the hood. Even if you don’t know very much about what’s under hood you still be able to check for signs of damage, like rust or dents. You can always have a mechanic come and inspect under the hood. 

If it all seems to look good then the last thing would be to take it for a test drive. Pay attention to how it handles the road and how it sounds. Make sure you feel comfortable and safe while driving the vehicle. Don’t buy the car if you hear any unusually noises, that is never a good sign. There are many options out there you don’t need to settle for anything. You can get the good quality used car that you want.


