Title: 
GM Hybrid Vehicle Undergoing Testing By Cleveland Regional Transit Authority

Word Count:
421

Summary:
In a GM news announcement on February 10, 2006, the company announced the testing of a transit vehicle powered by General Motors’ hybrid technology, which will be used for Cleveland’s BRT (Bus Rapid Transit) automobile known as Silver Line.  According to the recent GM news release, testing is currently being conducted by The Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority.


Keywords:
auto,automotive,news,car,cars,vehicles,GM,general,motors.autos,Ford


Article Body:
In a GM news announcement on February 10, 2006, the company announced the testing of a transit vehicle powered by General Motors’ hybrid technology, which will be used for Cleveland’s BRT (Bus Rapid Transit) automobile known as Silver Line.  According to the recent GM news release, testing is currently being conducted by The Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority.

The GM hybrid concept automobile is similar to the 21 automobiles that the Regional Transit Authority plans to purchase by the end of 2007.  The recent GM news announcement reveals that Cleveland’s reasoning behind the decision to purchase GM’s hybrid-powered vehicles is because they offer a more economic fuel consumption, along with cleaner emissions than that of conventional bus transportation.

The Silver Line is just one aspect of The Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority’s impending project, which hopes to better transit service by using more environmentally friendly automobiles, reducing traffic congestion, increasing pedestrian safety and supporting increased improvements along city avenues.  The project is geared toward providing shorter travel times for passengers, which will enable them to have better access to school, work, home, medical facilities and the city’s recreational activities.  The recent GM news announcement reveals the plan to have the Silver Line completely operational in 2008.

Public transportation buses, which are powered by GM’s hybrid technology are shown to be better for the environment, overall fuel consumption and customer’s wallets.  Being more cost-effective than rail transportation is just one of the reasons that many commuters are deciding to take the bus.  By combining GM’s hybrid technology, consumers will see reasonable rates and have the convenience of cleaner air.

“The General Motors hybrid diesel electric drive system for buses uses the most efficient parallel hybrid architecture available in the world today and is perfect for BRT initiatives,” said Tom Stephens, Group Vice President of GM Powertrain. In a recent GM news quote, Stephens added, “If the U.S. had only 1,000 GM hybrid powered buses operating in major cities, the cumulative savings would be more than 1.5 million gallons of fuel annually.”														
There are currently 380 GM hybrid technology buses operating in 29 cities throughout the United States and Canada.  During 2006, GM has scheduled deliver of 216 hybrid-powered buses to six American cities.  

GM news is constantly surrounding the most innovative new designs, technology and creations that the company has to offer.  As the world moves ahead, hybrid transportation is expected to gain in popularity each year.  Among their many benefits, hybrid automobiles are especially practical to helping conserve fuel while maximizing air quality.


