Title: 
GMC Sierra, Twin of the Chevrolet Silverado

Word Count:
372

Summary:
Since 1999, the GMC Sierra has already been rolling its way on the highways and on the streets and roads. When it was introduced to the automotive world, it actually filled the spot and niche left vacant by the Chevrolet C/K and the GMC C/K.


Keywords:
auto parts,GMC Sierra,GMC Sierra pickup parts,GMC parts,GMC accessories,electrical parts,dash kit


Article Body:
The GMC Sierra is one of the latest full size pick up trucks that General Motors offers to the public and to the automobile market. In fact, this vehicle has rolled its way to become the second best selling vehicle in the United States as per this year, 2006. It may be confusing for some people, however, the GMC Sierra has a counterpart in the Chevrolet line up of pick up trucks. The GMC Sierra is rebadged under Chevrolet as the Chevrolet Silverado. 

Since 1999, the GMC Sierra has already been rolling its way on the highways and on the streets and roads. When it was introduced to the automotive world, it actually filled the spot and niche left vacant by the Chevrolet C/K and the GMC C/K. This vehicle actually rides on the FR/4 WD GMT 800/880 platform. It has been said that this vehicle’s competition include the Ford F Series, the Nissan Titan, the Toyota Tundra, and the Dodge Ram. If you do have some $16,715 to $36,045, then you possibly can own the GMC Sierra. The price is worth everything for this vehicle gives its owners comfort and also extreme functionality. In fact, this GMC Sierra can actually tow up to 10,400 pounds. 

People who have been able to take a seat inside the GMC Sierra’s cabin and interior have been able to feel the distinct power and yet the easy comfort that the GMC Sierra has. For its seats, owners are given the choice of material to be used and these are either leather, cloth or vinyl. The color choices for the material are Dark Pewter, and Neutral, although for leather seats, there is an additional option which is Pewter. As per the exterior’s color, the color choices are Stealth Gray Metallic with Silver Birch Metallic accent, Summit White with Steel Gray Metallic or Silver Birch Metallic accent, Fire Red with Silver Birch Metallic accent, Steel Gray Metallic with Silver Birch Metallic accent, Silver Birch Metallic with Steel Gray Metallic accent, Sand Beige Metallic, Deep Blue Metallic with Silver Birch Metallic accent, Onyx Black with Silver Birch Metallic accent, Sport Red Metallic with Silver Birch Metallic, and Polo Green Metallic with Steel Gray Metallic or Silver Birch Metallic accent.


