Title: 
Going Away? Store Your Car.

Word Count:
400

Summary:
According to automobile experts, a car should be stored well if it would not be used for a long period of time. This is primarily because a car has many fluids and other chemicals in it that could only try to wear down the metal and rubber components of the vehicle if it is not used for a long time.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar parts,Jaguar XJ12 parts,Jaguar accessories


Article Body:
So you are going on a much awaited family vacation to the Caribbean. And now you would be out in the open sea and relaxing with your loved ones for a couple of weeks. Well, this might be a good time to relax however there are some things that you do need to take care of before you do take off for that tropical get away. 

One of the things that you should not forget to keep and store to safety is your beloved car. Of course everybody knows that your car has been your constant companion through your daily responsibilities and duties. It has also consistently served you to your fun nights out as well as your simple wanderings to different places. 

According to automobile experts, a car should be stored well if it would not be used for a long period of time. This is primarily because a car has many fluids and other chemicals in it that could only try to wear down the metal and rubber components of the vehicle if it is not used for a long time. With this in mind, you should now be ready to take on the task of keeping your car safe and stored well while you enjoy your long vacation. 

First off, you should choose a good garage or a storage facility for cars that is dry. This is very important because any damp air or any kind of moisture would actually cause rust to form on your car. Remember, you are going to keep your car stored for a good amount of time. This should be just the right amount of time for rust to work its craft on your car. 

Another thing that you should check is the gas tank. Make sure that you fill it up even if you are not going to use it. Also add a fuel stabilizing additive. This actually prevents the gas from oxidizing. This is very important. Or you might find rust and moisture inside your gas tank when you come back. And while you are at it, disconnect the battery. 

Purchase a car cover or tarpaulin that is of good quality to make sure that there would be only a minimal amount of dust and other materials to touch your vehicle. 

And when you have done this, you might as well start off to your vacation spot and enjoy it.


