Title: 
Grease And Oil On Your Car’s Interior

Word Count:
333

Summary:
Much as you keep your car’s interior immaculate and clean, accidents do happen. You could step on oil or grease that may have leaked from other vehicles. And when you do, you could bring it in your car’s cabin without you knowing it. Well, only until you notice that oil or grease stain on your carpet – or even on the fabrics in your car.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jauguar parts,Jaguar XJ6 parts,Jaguar accessories


Article Body:
We all know the properties of oil and grease. They can really stick on anything and could become quite a mess. They are very slick and oily. Aside from these, they could prove to be quite a challenge to remove. 

Much as you keep your car’s interior immaculate and clean, accidents do happen. You could step on oil or grease that may have leaked from other vehicles. And when you do, you could bring it in your car’s cabin without you knowing it. Well, only until you notice that oil or grease stain on your carpet – or even on the fabrics in your car. Too bad. 

One of the easiest ways of removing these grease or oil stains from your car’s interior is by replacing the oiled-up or greased-up parts with new parts for Jaguar XJ6. But that could prove to be quite expensive on your end when you can simply remove the stain yourself by simply using some muscles and working up a little sweat. 

If you got grease or oil in the fabrics of your car, you should first blot away any excess oil or grease, especially if these elements are still fresh on the fabrics. After blotting these out and there are still more, you can try scraping them away. On the same spot, put a cloth that is very absorbent and leave it there. Let the cloth absorb any more oil or grease. Come back after a few hours and this time, apply a laundry stain remover product to the area. This would remove the stain. And when you have successfully done so, sponge the stain remover away with warm water. 

Remember that should be done only in fabrics. If you get oil or grease on your leather seats or any leather part of your cabin, do not attempt to clean it up or you just might only mess up the stain more. It is recommended that you bring it to a professional leather cleaner instead.


