Title: 
Green Cars Go Festive!

Word Count:
323

Summary:
The green festival would actually be a venue for auto manufacturers to show off their environment friendly cars. In fact, the festival already has in store a huge array of the now familiar hybrid cars as well as electric cars. There are even some cars that are a combination of both hybrid and electric.


Keywords:
auto parts,Land Rover,Land Rover parts,Land Rover cooling system parts,Land Rover accessories


Article Body:
This coming 29th of July, everyone can be part of the Green Car and Transportation Festival. Starting at twelve o’clock noon up until five in the afternoon, people can roam about the event’s area and learn more about being green and environment friendly. Interested parties can simply troop to Ipswich, Massachusetts’ Town Hall. 

This green festival would actually be a venue for auto manufacturers to show off their environment friendly cars. In fact, the festival already has in store a huge array of the now familiar hybrid cars as well as electric cars. There are even some cars that are a combination of both hybrid and electric. There are also vehicles that show off cutting edge technologies which could already be in the market or are just in the late stages of development. Information on these vehicles would also be provided like data on Land Rover cooling system parts or other car features that could enhance a vehicle’s performance without sacrificing the environment. 

Production vehicles that you could feast your eyes on would include Honda hybrids Accord, Civic, and Civic ICE. Toyota hybrid vehicles Highlander, Camry, and Prius would also take part of the festivities. You can also find compressed natural gas cars like the Crown Victoria, Honda Civic GX, and the Ford F150 pickup truck. 

Aside from cars and hybrids, the Green Car and Transportation Festival would also be the host for other exhibits where participants, visitors, and guests could learn more about being green. There are exhibits that would provide information on transportation agencies, environmental organizations, and advocacy groups. These, of course, would have to be those groups and organizations that are working towards lessening pollution and reducing the country’s dependence on oil imported from other countries. 

There would also be presentations that would be given by experts in the automotive industry. The topics would range from global warning, hydrogen fuel, solar energy, and even biodiesel fuel.


