Title: 
GT Channel Brings To You the Latest in Racing Videos

Word Count:
441

Summary:
Since the day the internet allowed people to publish their videos online, there has been a sort of revolution. Video creators and video submission companies have been jostling for space and attention.


Keywords:
onKeyDown=textCounter(this.form.f_artkey,this.form.avachars_key,200);


Article Body:
Since the day the internet allowed people to publish their videos online, there has been a sort of revolution. Video creators and video submission companies have been jostling for space and attention. People have published funny, interesting as well as bizarre videos. There has been one for everyone… 

Moving aside from this common genre of videos, are the adventure and action sport videos, which have slowly carved a niche among their rapidly growing group of enthusiasts. In the car racing scenario there has been exciting and brisk competition for creating new, attractive and challenging versions of racing videos. Not only have Racing videos evolved and diversified in the past years, they have also been successful in developing a strong fan following and inspiring ardent users to create and share their racing videos online.

Providing a strong medium to this passionate group of racing video creators is- GT Channel – one of the most happening destinations for enthusiasts of racing videos. GT Channel started operations in 2006 and has progressed rapidly, to be recognized as a comprehensive source on car racing and racing videos. GT Channel has been focused in its efforts to provide professionally created videos, submitted by its numerous users, in a community-based environment. 

We look forward to original video content from our users, and strive to provide free and accessible videos online, for the maximum benefit of our users. The open flow of information on the internet allows us to bring together a wide network of viewers, creators, and advertisers in a sponsorship marketplace for online videos. GT Channel will help you with all the tools and techniques you will need to distribute your work online and earn money. The more people download, email or post your videos on their website, the more money you earn. You also have the ability to add or remove your videos from GT Channel, at any time. 

If you are looking for the best collection of exciting racing videos developed by top producers and passionate users all over the world, switch to GT Channel - a haven for car racing fans world wide. We feature top car and racing videos from Hot Version, Best Motoring, and SUPER GT! You'll get to see stock cars, touge racing, tuned cars, circuit and drifting battles. Users can also avail of the wonderful opportunity to upload their racing videos and share them with the online community. The video production division of the company has also earned the worldwide rights to license and distribute Kodansha/2&4 Motoring's popular car video magazine for DVD/Video, TV and clips, to the growing consumer market, through traditional and digital distribution services on www.gtchannel.com.


