Title: 
Guide to buy a cheap used car

Word Count:
422

Summary:
A cheap used car guide containing tips to buy cheap used car, used car guide, used car market figures, used car buying advice, used car benefits. Resources on cheap used cars.


Keywords:
cheap used car, buy used car, cheap car, used car, used car benefits, used car online, used car guide, used car buy tips, used car market, used car prices.


Article Body:
Are you hunting for used car? Buying a used car is not a headache like previously it was. Now-a-days one can easily find a used car for which he is looking for. Let us see some pint which one should keep in mind before purchasing a use car. 

What do you look out for?
A good car is never old. First make your mind that which model are you looking for and is it in your budget and from where you want to buy from auto dealer or online. All this will definitely help you to make a proper decision. 

Selecting your car 
One way to select your dream car is to first identify the car which you are indent to buy. Make sure are you looking for a family car or not. You can get used car of your choice in a very attractive price from any auto dealer.

Appearance of your selected car
Make sure that the car appearance is good and no where hidden rusting is there. Sometimes many auto dealers apply a fresh coat of paint to get hide all the rust. Check whether any major accident marks are there or not. 

Paperwork
You have selected your car. Now for your facility check all the legal paperwork Number of previous owners, their antecedents, registration details, one-time tax entry and insurance papers - all need to be cross-checked. Once the above is done and your apprehensions are solved, get ready for the most important aspect of the buying process.

Test Drive
For a good deal never buy a second-hand car without first driving it. Sometimes old engines need to be warm up. A low battery and bald tyres gives you opportunity to bargain more.

Finalizing the deal
As now all the things have be done, ask auto dealer to transform all the legal car document on your name, legally. Remember to get all the legal formalities you complete before you take the car key in your hand.

All this guidelines will help you to make a good and healthy deal and to get your dream car in your hand.

Anna Josephs is a freelance journalist having experience of many years writing articles and news releases on various topics such as pet health, automobile and social issues. She also has great interest in poetry and paintings, hence she likes to write on these subjects as well. Currently writing for this website <a href=" http://www.bestcheapusedcar.com/"> Best Cheap Used Car  </a> . For more details please contact at annajosephs@gmail.com


