Title: 
Hagerty Ensures Classics Stay on the Road

Word Count:
285

Summary:
This article tells the reader about Hagerty insurance company and what it does for the average consumer.


Keywords:
luxury, luxury cars, exotic cars, luxury car rental, exotic car rental


Article Body:
Hagerty is a multifaceted network of specialty services for classic car collectors. Hagerty is an insurance company that insures classic automobiles that are generally difficult to insure. Hagerty Plus is an exclusive private club that offers an array of additional services of specific interest to collectors of classic cars. There is a members-only Web site that serves as a forum to exchange and gather information from collectors and industry experts. There also is a quarterly publication that is an excellent source for news and events. 

The concierge service is probably the greatest privilege of a Hagerty Plus membership. Members are welcomed to submit questions or request info on any collector car or related topic such as tips on restoration, buying and selling, car care, and driving. If an appropriate response is not readily available, the query will be thoroughly researched and resolved. Every monthly the Web site is updated with articles and information from renowned experts, journalists, and fellow hobbyists. 

Hagerty also is an advocacy group that stays abreast of government issues affecting classic cars. Members are contacted immediately if their state is proposing law changes or legislation that could affect them. Surveys and questionnaires are frequently conducted among members and various types of professional-service providers to monitor and report worthwhile news to members. Hagerty also supports the Collectors Foundation, which is a non-profit organization that endows scholarships or grants to individuals and organizations involved in the preservation and restoration of classic cars. 

The organization also offers insurance to classic boats. Most cruisers and trawlers, mono-hull sailboats, runabouts, utilities, skiffs, and launches can be insured. Check out Hagerty's Private Client Services. It caters to owners with vehicles valued at $250,000 or more or collections that exceed $500,000.


