Title: 
Helpful Tips For Buying A Used Car

Word Count:
545

Summary:
Each year hundreds of thousands of used cars change hands. Some deals are great buys; others are not so good. Follow these tips for buying a used car to help you get the best value for your money. 

It is always better to find out what’s wrong with a used car before you buy it rather than after you own it. Carfax vehicle history reports are a great way to get this information. Carfax collects information from around 5,000 different sources. But, remember the report is only ...


Keywords:
used cars


Article Body:
Each year hundreds of thousands of used cars change hands. Some deals are great buys; others are not so good. Follow these tips for buying a used car to help you get the best value for your money. 

It is always better to find out what’s wrong with a used car before you buy it rather than after you own it. Carfax vehicle history reports are a great way to get this information. Carfax collects information from around 5,000 different sources. But, remember the report is only as good as the information reported. If the car is in an accident but the accident is not reported, the information isn’t going to be in Carfax. That’s why you still should have the vehicle inspected before purchasing it. 

A mechanical inspection is the surest way to find obvious problems with the vehicle. The mechanic will easily be able to tell if there are leaks, corrosion, frame damage, hidden damage, brake or suspension problems, engine problems, and other obvious mechanical issues. The mechanics report however, will not tell you anything about the history of the car such as whether it has been in an accident.

Always take the car for a test drive. Make sure you don’t just drive it on city roads. Take it out on the highway and get up to highway speeds to make sure you like the ride, how quiet the car runs, steering, and other elements like how good your visibility is and blind spots. Decide whether you are comfortable driving the car. If you aren’t comfortable, then it’s not the car for you. 

You can save a great deal of money on your used car by shopping around for good financing. Some lending institutes offer better rates than others. There are many institutes that offer a hassle free online service that’s as simple as filling out an online application. Once your financing is approved, they will send you the check to take to the dealer. 

If you have the opportunity to purchase an extended warranty for your car, it can be a good investment. An extended warranty can protect you from breakdowns and save your pocketbook from some serious strain. 

There are two types of coverage; bumper to bumper and powertrain. Bumper to bumper covers almost everything, while a powertrain warranty covers major breakdowns like engine and transmission. The cost between the two types of coverage can be significant, but depending on the age of the car and type of car bumper to bumper coverage can be worth the extra money.

There are several good website resources for finding out what a vehicle is worth. You can search by category, make, model, and price. If you do an Internet search for “used vehicle prices,” you’ll find several good resources. 

If you can’t find the car you want locally, buying a car online is another option. Just do your research to make sure the dealer is reputable. It’s always a good idea to only put a deposit down and then pay the balance once you’ve inspected the car and it meets your expectations. 

These tips for buying a used car will keep you stress free and help you make the best buy possible.


