Title: 
Hidden Expenses Of Corvettes

Word Count:
399

Summary:
There is more to consider in terms of expense when you are thinking about purchasing a classic corvette than the price tag. As with any other major vehicle purchase, there are several other items that must be considered when analyzing if a classic car can fit into your budget. With these collector’s items, it is important to remember that the traditional vehicle expenses can be a lot more on a collector item.

Insurance: Insurance on a classic corvette is going to be a lot ...


Keywords:
Corvette, sports car, Stingray, Chevy Corvette, Chevrolet


Article Body:
There is more to consider in terms of expense when you are thinking about purchasing a classic corvette than the price tag. As with any other major vehicle purchase, there are several other items that must be considered when analyzing if a classic car can fit into your budget. With these collector’s items, it is important to remember that the traditional vehicle expenses can be a lot more on a collector item.

Insurance: Insurance on a classic corvette is going to be a lot more pricy than on a regular vehicle. The car will not come with devices considered safety standards in the industry today, and the price of the insurance will reflect that. Custom classic cars are also ripe targets for auto theft, as they are not compatible with anti-theft devices. This too will be reflected in the insurance costs. Auto insurers know that owners of classic cars are only going to insure their vehicles for driving during the good seasons, and seasonal insurance carries rates reflecting this reality.

Safety: As touched on above, there are many safety features that are taken for granted in the modern car that are not available in a classic corvette. No corvette comes with air bags, child seat anchors, reinforced structure, or impact-resistant siding material. Many corvettes do not even have seat belts in the back seats. It is not too likely that you are going to be shipping your babies or grandbabies around in your classic car, but driving without seatbelts and other standard safety features may prove an expensive prospect in the event of an accident.

Accessories: One of the big purchases for a corvette owner besides the car is a place to store the car during the winter and also in transportation. Big trailers suitable for your corvette do not come cheap, and are an expense to factor in when considering your budget.

Gas: Make no mistake, the corvette was designed in an age where materials were abundant and the horizon was limitless. These cars were built for power and speed, and anyone who suggested economy in the corvette era would have had his horn-rims shoved into his face by a fist at the end of a leather-clad arm. Times have changed, and the corvette is still designed for mid-century pump prices. Driving your classic around at today’s prices is going to be a very pricy prospect.


