Title: 
Honda Accord: Midsize Division’s Best Selling Car

Word Count:
531

Summary:
The new 2006 Honda Accord is a family sedan that holds four doors. It has the maximum passenger capacity of holding five people. This vehicle is considered to be the best midsize car in the United States at present. The 2006 Honda Accord has been redesigned and totally reengineered.


Keywords:
auto parts,Honda,Honda Accord parts,Honda parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Welcome the new 2006 Honda Accord. This vehicle is a family sedan that holds four doors. It has the maximum passenger capacity of holding five people. It also comes available in 17 various trims that ranges from the VP 5 Spd MT to the EX V6 5 Spd AT with Nav System and XM Radio. Standard for all trim levels is a 5 speed automatic transmission system with overdrive. This vehicle is freshened for 2006. 

This vehicle is considered to be the best midsize car in the United States at present. The 2006 Honda Accord has been redesigned and totally reengineered. Because of this very fact, this car has now become one of the best selling midsize cars. It comes with a combination and concoction of high technology, high quality, and everyday economy of operation. It offers a lifetime of comfort as well as amazing convenience features. Its main competitor is most likely the Toyota Camry. 

For this year, the 2006 Honda Accord offers several new features and these include a powerful and responsive VTEC engine with four cylinders. This engine is responsible for producing and providing the car with a strong acceleration performance. For the EX-L and EX V6 trims, an XM Satellite Radio is made standard. Added in are side curtain airbags, a climate control system, an MP3 player, a Windows Media player, a DVD rear seat entertainment system, as well as a hands-free cellular phone. It has also been designed and crafted to be highly fuel efficient with low emissions and partial zero emissions, or PZEV. The 2006 Honda Accord has angular headlamps and sharpened noses. It actually reminds people of the Acura RSX. It boasts of a muscular and agile look that is due to its carefully sculpted body that holds a combination of concave and convex surfaces on its corners and sides. As per its interior, it is especially smooth, firm, and very quiet. It holds wide seats that are comfortable because of the added springs and urethane padding that reduces vibration. 

In a nutshell, the 2006 Honda Accord holds a color choice for its exterior that includes desert mist metallic (ivory), graphite pearl (gray), premium white pearl (ivory), Redondo red pearl (gray), and silver frost metallic (gray). The features for this vehicle line include wheel locks, a removable roof rack, a ski attachment, a snowboard attachment, a bike attachment, a car cover, a half nose mask, a full nose mask, a Fenderwell trim, door visors, splash guards, door edge guards, a gold exhaust finisher, fog lights, a cargo net, a trunk tray, an auto day and night mirror with compass, a cassette player, an MP3 player, a Honda music link (for iPod), anti-lock braking system (ABS), dual-stage and dual-threshold front airbags (SRS), front and rear crush zones, front side airbags with passenger side occupant position detection system (OPDS), the LATCH system, child seat tether anchors, seat belts with pretensioners, side curtain airbags, side impact door beams, and a wave key and immobilizer system.

For Honda Accord parts and Honda auto parts needs, customers and interested parties can visit Auto Parts Go. Auto Parts Go is an online store that holds a wide array of quality and durable Honda parts and accessories.
</p>


