Title: 
Honda Fit: Made To Fit Lifestyles

Word Count:
247

Summary:
The Honda Fit has already been making its rounds in Europe and Asia. Features that it holds include front air bags, front side air bags, side curtain air bags, steering wheel-mounted paddle shifters, air conditioning, air filtration, power windows, power side mirrors, a 60/40 split Magic Seat, anti lock ABS brakes, four interior configurations, a stick transmission system or an automatic transmission system, and it also comes as a hatchback.


Keywords:
auto parts,Honda,Honda Fit,Honda parts,Honda accessories


Article Body:
Honda is launching yet another vehicle in the United States and the rest of North America. And this time around, it would be called the Honda Fit. 

The Honda Fit has already been making its rounds in Europe and Asia. And it has already been reaping in success for it is already one of the huge and biggest sellers in those areas. According to Chuck Schifsky, who is the manager of the regional public relations operations of American Honda, “The Fit comes to America with several attributes for those customers who want an attractive, efficient, and safe small car.” Aside from this, the Fit is also claiming to be a huge potential for the American market. 

Despite it being physically small, it still holds a gigantic amount of features. This new vehicle holds a 1.5 liter VTEC engine that can actually produce some 109 horsepower. Features that it holds include front air bags, front side air bags, side curtain air bags, steering wheel-mounted paddle shifters, air conditioning, air filtration, power windows, power side mirrors, a 60/40 split Magic Seat, anti lock ABS brakes, four interior configurations, a stick transmission system or an automatic transmission system, and it also comes as a hatchback. 

The Honda Fit would be joining the ranks wherein the Chevy Aveo, Toyota Yaris, Kia Rio, Nissan Versa, and Mini Coopers are competing with each other. Just like these other vehicles, the Fit is promising not only efficiency and performance despite its small stature. It is also promising


