Title: 
How to Transport Your Classic Car

Word Count:
447

Summary:
Many classic car transport companies will design an itinerary exclusive to you, this allows for greater flexibility on times of pick-up and delivery.


Keywords:
transport, car, classic, car transport, classic car, classic car transport, transport companies, companies, enclosed, service, trailers, available, enclosed trailers, delivery, safe, travel, sure, cars, vehicle, vehicles,


Article Body:
Classic car transport is a large branch of car transport; it is a specialized field that includes car transport companies that are dedicated to the transport of antique and vintage cars. Most trailers used for the safe and efficient transport of classic cars are specially designed for smooth travel and protection from road and weather. 

Classic car transport companies usually employ only professional drivers who are experienced handlers of antique and exotic cars. Some popular trailer options for secure classic car transport are: six-car enclosed trailers, four-car enclosed trailers, and two-car non-stacking enclosed trailers. Most auto transporters of classic vehicles will offer delivery from door-to-door or delivery to the customer. Most classic car transport companies will accept non-running vehicles. 

When you are searching for a classic car transport company, ask if classic and vintage vehicle transport is their main activity or a sideline of another business. In addition, find out if they contract out transport to third parties. Make sure when you are investigating car transport companies that classic vehicles are their main focus. To safeguard your interests, also make sure they carry the best insurance coverage available. 

Many classic car transport companies will design an itinerary exclusive to you, this allows for greater flexibility on times of pick-up and delivery. Additionally in-transit contact between office and drivers through cell phones is a service that most classic car transport companies will provide as part of the basic transport service. Winching is also available at a modest fee. 

Many classic car transport companies offer worldwide vehicle transportation solutions to individuals. These classic car transport companies specialize in reliable, proficient service with frequent departures from major U.S. ports. Normally you will be assigned a very experienced customer service representative to insure the safe convey of your car. 

Classic car transport companies use various methods to move your car long distances, such as flatbed truck, enclosed single trailer and enclosed rail service. Your car will probably travel flat without being tied down by chains. Easy and safe loading on custom built covered trailers with full lift gates is usually a standard and most classic car transport companies have tie-down systems that provide security without harming your vehicle. Airtight sanitary environments and full air equipment for smooth travel are other popular available options. Custom equipment designed to meet your needs is often available upon request. 

It should not be difficult to find a classic car transport facility with a professional crew of mechanics and maintenance people who maintain an exceptional fleet of opened and enclosed transports to fit your needs and budget. Just knowing the basic facts about classic car transport will make finding the best company a sure success.


