Title: 
How to Create Your Own Vanity Plates

Word Count:
399

Summary:
Creating your own vanity plates could prove to be quite a challenge. After all, you only have a limited number of characters (either numbers or letters), and spaces to work on. And of course, you would like to have a striking yet true message on your vanity plate.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo parts,Volvo accessories,Volvo 760 parts,vanity plates


Article Body:
Vanity plates, for some people, are just an added expense, for in some states, they do charge people with vanity plates an annual fee for them. However, there are some people who would opt to have vanity plates so as to show off and tell people more about themselves. Aside from telling people what kind of person they are, vanity plates also serve as channels and media for people to shout out to the rest of the driving world some messages that they would like to get across. 

Creating your own vanity plates could prove to be quite a challenge. After all, you only have a limited number of characters (either numbers or letters), and spaces to work on. And of course, you would like to have a striking yet true message on your vanity plate. You would also love to have to work on the premise that the message that you may have thought of is no longer available at the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). It may be challenging but it could also prove to be fun. 

The first thing that you would have to do if you are interesting in acquiring a vanity plate for your vehicle would be to contact the DMV. Inquire about the rules on the number of characters that the department allows. Also inquire about taboo words or messages. That way, you would know your limits and you would be able to start working on your message. 

Decide then what kind of activity, business, person, or message you would like to share to the rest of the world using your vanity plate. It could be your name. It could be your car. It could be your business. It could be your hobby. It could also be your hubby, your pastime, your favorite food, your favorite color, your obsession, or it could be simply your message to the rest of the world. 

Write down this message. Then, take out letters that could be replaced with phonetics or with shorter characters. For example, “to” could be shortened to “2”, “love” to “LV”, “trip” to “3P”, and “easy” to “EZ”. The thing here is to be creative. 

Vanity plates are one way of accessorizing and personalizing your vehicle. Other accessories for Volvo vehicles are actually offered at low prices at Volvo Parts and Used Volvo Parts. They specializes in Volvo parts and accessories especially Volvo 760 parts.


