Title: 
How To Dispose Of Your Old ATV Tires

Word Count:
451

Summary:
When it comes time to replace your old and worn ATV tires, many riders are eager to purchase new tires, but many are unaware what to do with the old ones. Regardless where you live, throwing old tires in a body or water or natural environment is improper—and in many cases illegal—since the tires can corrupt nature. When disposing of your old ATV tires, be sure to do so in a proper and legal manner that will not negatively impact the environment for future generations.

More...


Keywords:
ATV,ATV Tires,Tires,ATV Accessories


Article Body:
When it comes time to replace your old and worn ATV tires, many riders are eager to purchase new tires, but many are unaware what to do with the old ones. Regardless where you live, throwing old tires in a body or water or natural environment is improper—and in many cases illegal—since the tires can corrupt nature. When disposing of your old ATV tires, be sure to do so in a proper and legal manner that will not negatively impact the environment for future generations.

More and more often, tires are being recycled and formed into all sorts of new products. From park benches to carpets, recycled rubber is a durable and economical product. When you are faced with the decision what to do with your old ATV tires, look to your local recycling company to see if rubber is accepted. Although you may not be able to place your tires to the curb if you community is involved with curbside recycling, the recycling plant may be able to take the tires off your hands. Look to the phonebook or internet to find a recycling facility near you and make a quick visit or telephone call to see if your tires are able to be recycled.

Most tire stores that provide you with new tires for your ATV will be able to take your old ones. Before you make the change, be sure to ask the tire center what they do with old tires if you are concerned about the environmental impact unused rubber causes. Also, there may be a slight fee involved with properly disposing of your old tires, so know this amount upfront in order to prevent any surprises at the cash register. The state in which you live may have certain regulations or fees involving tire disposal, and this is often incorporated into your bill and is listed separately from the cost of the new tires or the labor to install the tires on your ATV.

If your old tires still have life in them, consider giving them to a friend or family member with an ATV. Keep in mind that old tires should only be used if they still have ample tread and are able to ensure the vehicle can be driven safely. Also, consider selling your old ATV tires so that you can use the profits to buy a new set. Look to your local newspaper and list a classified advertisement or turn to the internet with sites like Ebay or Craigslist to sell your tires. These are great resources and you may even find a new set of ATV tires listed at a more economical price than offered at your local tire store.


