Title: 
How To Get Super Glue Of A Car

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Many cars now come with the option to have super protective coatings applied, often called clear coats and "bras". These are a great help in keeping such things as acidic bird droppings and rock chips from damaging your car's exterior paint job. But when someone spills Super Glue on it, that's a much stickier situation.

We wish this was good news and bad news, but there is no good news to Super Glue and painted surfaces. The basic ingredient in most removers for Super Glue...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Many cars now come with the option to have super protective coatings applied, often called clear coats and "bras". These are a great help in keeping such things as acidic bird droppings and rock chips from damaging your car's exterior paint job. But when someone spills Super Glue on it, that's a much stickier situation.

We wish this was good news and bad news, but there is no good news to Super Glue and painted surfaces. The basic ingredient in most removers for Super Glue and Crazy Glue, is acetone. This chemical is also found in nail polish, which is highly popular for removing little drips and drabs around the home, as long as they are on skin, wood, glass, and surfaces that aren't going to be stained or leached of their color.

Acetone can even be used on a finished table or cupboard top, but chances are, it will damage the shine/finish, and should always be tested on a hidden area, first.

There really is no safe way to get this kind of bonding material off the painted metal surface of a car, without removing an area of paint. The one method you can try, which is by no means guaranteed, is also used on skin and that's a combination of heavy hand cream, with some powdered or liquid soap. First, soak the spill with warm water by laying a dripping rag on it. Then take a cloth, dip it in your mixture, and apply it to the glue and rub. The combination of grease and sliding of the petroleum ingredients in soap, can ease glue off skin, but on a car, given that the glue is bonded to the paint and not a permanent surface, you may be able to shift the glue, but it will take the paint off with it.


