Title: 
How To Save Money On A New Car

Word Count:
487

Summary:
The price of cars these days is just out of this world. You can figure on spending upwards of $30,000 for a family van. No wonder a lot of people are opting for used cars. Even with prices creeping up and up there are still ways for you to save money if you have your heart set on a new car.

The first advice I'll offer is to do your homework before you approach a dealership. There is an endless amount of information available on the internet. Every car manufacturer has a we...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The price of cars these days is just out of this world. You can figure on spending upwards of $30,000 for a family van. No wonder a lot of people are opting for used cars. Even with prices creeping up and up there are still ways for you to save money if you have your heart set on a new car.

The first advice I'll offer is to do your homework before you approach a dealership. There is an endless amount of information available on the internet. Every car manufacturer has a website, dealerships have web sites. See what deals they are offering on what models. Check on the edmunds.com website for information on retail prices for new and used cars of any make and model. You should, before you even pull into the dealership, have a ballpark figure of what your new car should cost, including any special packages you may want.

A lot of dealers have taken the haggling and pressure out of new car buying, which many of consumers like. Remember the days when you'd ask what the price of a car is and the salesman would reply "how much can you afford to pay a month?". You never knew exactly what you were paying for your new car until you were at the desk ready to sign the contract. Today we are educated consumers and those days are gone forever.

You will be able to get a good deal during the end of model year sales. The dealers will make just about any deal to get an older model off the lot to make room for a new one. Also, go into the dealership at the end of the month. Your salesman will be doing his best to sell a few more vehicles to up his commission payment. 

Get the bottom line price for that new car before you talk about a trade in. Generally the first thing a salesman will ask is if you have a trade in. Say "no". If your salesman knows you have a trade in it will affect the price you pay for your new car, no doubt. If he makes you a ridiculously good deal for your trade in you can believe that the price of your new car will reflect this. Make sure you know what the value of your trade in is. Again you can check edmunds.com. Take you car to a variety of dealerships and get an idea of this price from them. 

The bottom line is to do your homework. Get a price for the new car from several different dealers. There is nothing wrong with each of them vying to give you the best deal.

Consider your finance charges. Get a quote on the interest rate you're offered from the dealership, then check with your bank or credit union to see what type of interest rates they offer.


