Title: 
How To File A Report In Case Of A Car Accident

Word Count:
473

Summary:
If you have been in a car accident, you must immediately file a report to your insurance company. Accidents have been increasing but some people do not have enough knowledge on how to deal with these cases the right way. You may have encountered an accident or you may just be part of the accident. Either way, you should know what to do after the accident has happened. 

If you witnessed a car accident, the first thing you should do is to seek aid for the injured. After the ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
If you have been in a car accident, you must immediately file a report to your insurance company. Accidents have been increasing but some people do not have enough knowledge on how to deal with these cases the right way. You may have encountered an accident or you may just be part of the accident. Either way, you should know what to do after the accident has happened. 

If you witnessed a car accident, the first thing you should do is to seek aid for the injured. After the ambulance has arrived or first aid has been provided, you should call the police and state what happened. You should answer all questions given by the police officer. Make sure that your answers are correct because the details given are written on a report, which will be used for assessing the case. All information given to the police officer must be accurate so that the fault will not be used against you. 
 
In making a report, make sure that you don’t change your statements after every court proceeding or investigation. The police officer may ask you questions about the case repeatedly. Make sure that you don’t change your statements because it will not match with the previous story. You can do this simply by telling the truth. 

Also make sure that you don’t leave out any information.

If a police officer is not present, you can take down important details yourself so you will not forget it later. When the police officer is present, you can present your notes and report and he will further investigate. In making your report, you should include the specific time, location, area, position and you can also ask for witnesses to back up the accident scene. 

People in the accident area may be very curious about what happened. If they ask for information, you should not share it with them especially your notes. You must first present it to the police so that the information is safe. If you spread the information, there might be inaccurate reports and some people might disseminate wrong information which will make the case puzzling.

Make sure that you stay on the scene after the accident has happened. If you leave the scene, there might be complications that will make the case very confusing. If you have been involved in a hit and run, try and get down the license number of the other vehicle. 

If you have a camera with you or a camera cell phone, take some photos of the accident. This can provide strong proof and evidence which can be very helpful. 

If you have a car accident, you need to know how to deal with it so you can make a report completely and have all required information for both the police and your insurance company.


