Title: 
How To Beat The On Going High Gas Prices

Word Count:
456

Summary:
The problem of high gas prices has come and refused to leave. Most people are under the constant pressure applied by the oil cartel at whose mercy everyone seems destined nowadays. But the question is, must the situation go on unchallenged?


Keywords:
gas, water, car, water gas, hho gas, hho, technology, need, gas technology, beat, water hho gas, going, hybrid car, cost, produced, conversion, averag


Article Body:
The problem of high gas prices has come and refused to leave. Most people are under the constant pressure applied by the oil cartel at whose mercy everyone seems destined nowadays. But the question is, must the situation go on unchallenged? This article is aimed at showing you how to beat the on going high gas prices without resorting to using biofuel, which is about taking food from the tables of the average family. There is presently a global shortage of grains as the production of ethanol increases in a bit to ameliorate the scarcity of gasoline.

Point Blank!

Straight to the point.   I recently took a close look at the erstwhile water for gas technology that enables you to run your cars and engines on more water than gas. And what I found is that the technology works. It is a 90 year  technology for turning water to  additive  hho gas. I was surprised, to say the least, how  people  have not  shown much interest in  hho gas untill recently.

What Is Water For Gas Technology?

Water for gas technology is the conversion of a little quantity of water into hho gas. Your car is usually converted with parts you can get dead cheap  from your neighborhood hardware store. The manual for carrying out the conversion is available online.

How Is Hho gas made?

Simply put, your car battery is connected to a contraption containing water which is turned into hho gas via the Lysis of the bond produced by the passage of  electric current from your car battery through  the water. The hho gas thus produced  is then burned by your car as additive gas making it possible for you to burn more water than gas.  It is so cheap to run your car on more water than gas. For 365 days, you will need only 4 gallons of water while running at more than 57% water than gas.

What About Storage?

There is no need for storage. The one quart of water required for running your car at every given time remains in the bottle. You only have to  top the water up from time to time.

How Much Does It Cost To Convert A average Car?

It does not cost anything near buying a an electric hybrid car that sells for thousands of dollars. A water for gas hybrid car can  be converted  for a couple hundred dollars.


Check out the authenticity of all I have said above about water for gas or hho gas technology. If you really need to save money on gas and also help in reducing the harmful tail end emission that result from burning fossil fuel, then you have to take a look at the genuineness of water for gas technology.


