Title: 
How To Buy Your Dream Car And Avoid Car Dealers' Dirty Tricks

Word Count:
1043

Summary:
Buying a car is usually our second biggest investment after our home purchase and most of us will do it more than once in our life.
There are two "best times" to buy a car. The end of December is a good time for car buyers to buy a new car. Everyone is out buying Christmas gifts, leaving new car dealer lots void of customers, motivating dealers to cut costs, and break year end sales records. Another good time to buy a car is July to October as new car dealers sell off cars at low prices to clea


Keywords:
car, a car, cars, automobile, vehicle, motor vehicle, trucks, sedan, automotive


Article Body:
<b>How to buy a new Car</b>

Buying a car is usually our second biggest investment after our home purchase and most of us will do it more than once in our life.

There is something emotional about cars, it represents our taste and style, our economic status and our character. Some women even claim that a car is a man’s extension of his reproductive organ. One the other hand (the good hand) there are women out there that might express their exhibitionism and extravagance by choosing to drive a red flashy car for the whole world to notice them. Both sexes would agree they sometimes feel they ”fall in love” with a certain car model.

There are people who get very existed from a small scratch on the cars lower side, as if it were their own skin. The beauty of the car, its aerodynamics shape, the gadgets inside, the seats the feel of it all play a major part in our decision making.

In our modern life it’s almost impossible to function without one and it’s expensive to acquire, to finance and to maintain.

Buying a new car is a lot of fun, the new car has its unique smell no doubt about it, the very fact you can afford to own a brand new car is a great feeling.

When is the best time to buy a new car?

There are two "best times" to buy a car. The end of December is a good time for car buyers to buy a new car. Everyone is out buying Christmas gifts, leaving new car dealer lots void of customers, motivating dealers to cut costs, and break year end sales records. Another good time to buy a car is July to October as new car dealers sell off cars at low prices to clear space for new car models. Secret factory to dealer incentives can be $1000-$6000 in addition to new car consumer rebates!

How and where to search for prices:

Invoice price – what the dealer pays the manufacturer – has become the real negotiating point. Allowing for the dealer's need to make a profit, the price you pay should be somewhere between sticker and invoice.

Virtually all car buying sites on the Internet show invoice and in most cases their buying tools automatically add option/package invoice amounts as you work your way through the process.

Any car buyer, with very little effort, can get an accurate summation of a car's value, which immediately puts him or her in a stronger negotiating position.

Happily for the consumer, the Internet now allows a prospective buyer to uncover market conditions at any moment in various parts of the country. Search for Edmunds.com on the web.

for example, reveals the True Market Value: CarsDirect.com, which sells cars online, has its own version called Guaranteed CarsDirect price Intellichoice.com sorts out the Best Deals of the Month.

<b>The negotiation phase and the dirty tricks:</b>

After you made your research via the Internet, it’s important you make some phone calls to car dealers and ask for some written offers to be sent to you via the fax or email for the car of your dreams. That way, you can compare prices between several dealers without being pressured by a salesperson.

You would be much better off selling your old car yourself rather than to trade it in through the dealer because the dealer will have to earn some money on it as well.

Remember, everything is a negotiable, car too. Buying a new car is tricky from the moment you step into the car dealership arena, you might be manipulated by scam artists, well trained sales persons that will use every trick in their fat book of tricks to extort every last Dollar out of your bank account.

There is one well known trick they teach in car dealers sales courses, it’s called “throwing a lowball”, in this tactic a customer is offered a very good price on a car, Perhaps as much as $500 below competitors prices. The good deal, however, is not genuine, its only purpose is to cause a prospect to decide to buy at this dealership and not from the other dealers. Once the decision is made a raft of purchase forms are filled out, extensive financial terms are arranged. The dealer knows, customers develop a range of new reasons to support the choice they have now made.

Then something happens. All of a sudden an “error” in the calculations is discovered, It might be the salesman forgot to add in the cost of the air conditioner and if the customer insists on having it, then $500 must be added to the price...

The cover up operation is played sophistically, some times they let the bank handling the financing find the “mistake”, other times the boss is not approving the deal because “we’d be losing money”. They make it look as if it’s not that big mistake as it’s a relatively small percentage of the price of the car and as they stress out it only brings it to be equal to competitors.

The impressive thing about the lowball tactic is its ability to make a person feel pleased with a poor choice. If anyone tries to change the originally-quoted terms or talk you into buying a different vehicle, just say "no" and go somewhere else.

If you are interested to learn about many others car dealers scams and how to avoid them go to: carbuyingtips.com/scams

Until all the papers have been signed there are still ways in which a shrewd dealer may add to his profit by talking you into extras you don't want and probably don't need. These can include added and overpriced insurance, extended warranties, rust proofing (absolutely unnecessary), paint or fabric protection, anti-theft plans, and more. Smile and firmly turn them all down.

Finally, before you drive away, do a careful inspection of the car, looking for scratches or dents; anything that mars the perfect finish. If you're not happy, get a written agreement (known as a Due Bill). It means you have the right to later return the vehicle in order that flaws can be corrected.


