Title: 
How To Convert Your Car To Run On Water + Gasoline And Double Your Mileage

Word Count:
1518

Summary:
Hot to save a fortune on petrol and convert your car to burn gasoline and water and help the environment too.


Keywords:
run my car on water, hydrogen fuel cell, cheap petrol, water


Article Body:
If you are like many vehicle owners getting annoyed by the amount fuel costs, you need to read further. This is a new way to literally save thousands on your fuel bill.

People around the world in many countries are tired of the high and ever increasing fuel prices

Several sources have claimed that the price of oil will reach $200 per barrel by the end of 2008. 
This mean that you have to pay about seven dollars per gallon of gas - which is extremely high and unaffordable.

There are several common alternatives to avoiding this rising price in gas:

1. Use public transportation and sell your car. Many people have converted to using public transportation because it it is cheap but it have it disadvantages. This solution will not work for people who are always using the car to pick up their children, go to work, go shopping, and other various tasks.

2. Purchase a hybrid car. You could also buy one of those hybrid car, but this is not an option for those who can't afford one. It could cost well over $20,000.

3. Get better gas mileage with your current car. Getting better mileage with your current car is the best option for you. There are many ways to get better gas mileage. Owning your own car and paying less for gas is even better than public transportation or buying a new car.

You could start doing the following to get the best gas mileage:

1. Accelerate slowly.
2. Prevent sudden breaking or acceleration by looking ahead.
3. Keep your speed constant.
4. Maintain your car. Check your oil and tire pressure regularly.

Many of these are very time consuming and in modern day life are not very realistic.

The best solution for you is to convert your car to run on water. This method will save you up to 75% of gas and will double your gas mileage in some case.

It has been proven that water could be used as fuel in order to increase the fuel economy and decrease the pollution. This new technology will cost you less than $200, it is easy to install, maintain and remove. Your engine will runs quieter and smoother, which helps increase your engine life.

Another benefit of using water to fuel your car is that it will prevent pollution.

Thousands of drivers have converted their car to use water as fuel. It is simple, cheap and will save you lots of gas money. <a href="<a href="http://tinyurl.com/yupxq9">Click Here</a> for more details
The benefits of using converting water into fuel:

- Your car life will increase
- Your car will gain power
- You might double the mileage on your car and get a fuel economy increase of up to 75%

Fox News recently broad-casted an interesting and very important video report.
A savvy automobile owner has come up with a very simple yet incredibly efficient way of boosting his old car’s gas mileage by up to 100% - that means several thousands of dollars economy every year.

The creator claims that his developed invention converts water into a gas called HHO (2 Hydrogen + 1 Oxygen). Also called Brown's gas or Hydroxy burns better than regular gas at our fuel pumps and provides more energy. This process is often referred to as Hydrogen Fuel Cell conversion.

Gas prices are on constant rise and the fuel economy question is starting to get very serious. More hybrid cars are sold all over the world, concepts of electric cars and Hydrogen fuel cell cars are developed in almost any country and finally there is a way for you to add a little something to fuel efficient revolution.

Car owners seem to forget or maybe ignore the fact that they could get better gas mileage simply by changing the way they drive. You do not need to buy an ugly and slow prototype in order to save on gas. You could increase gas mileage of your V8 truck as well! To get better gas mileage you should follow these simple rules;

• Accelerate gently. This will use less gas.

• Keep your distance - every time you stop you will have to accelerate.

• Take your car to a mechanic; simple air filter change or spark plugs replacement could greatly increase gas mileage

• Drive slower. Going over 120kph will use up much more gas.

• Change gears as soon as possible - low gear uses up to 30% more fuel than needed.

Our cars’ engines are designed in such poor way that they only burn about 20% of the fuel – the other 80% is wasted in heat and unburned gas (pollution). When converted to money at 3$ a gallon – per every gallon your car actually uses only 60 cents, and 2.40$ is completely wasted. When you convert your car to run on water, you create a gas which helps burning the fuel in a better proportion.

Instructions on how to convert car to run on water are also available for sale on the Internet. There have been many skeptical people that do not believe in the efficiency of the system – but there doubts always vanish after finding out that the instructions come with 2 month full satisfaction money back guarantee.

Is it not only the “saving money” part that attracts people - when you convert your car to run on water you also increase your car’s engine longevity and you greatly decrease the pollution. The system allows you to burn gas more efficiently – which decreases the noise of the engine and the wear and tear of the motor’s parts.

The system is composed by simple parts that are basically bolted on the engine. It could be done at almost no cost, by anyone and to any car. The system is completely untraceable when taken off of the engine.

Just imagine yourself buying half the gas you are buying now! Wouldn’t it be nice to have an extra couple of thousand of dollars for Christmas presents? For a vacation? For a down payment on a new car?

I hope this article gave you enough of useful information to consider converting your car to run on water.

<b>More information on HHO Fuel</b>

HHO gas is the latest innovation to increase gas mileage you may have seen it in the news. When you make an HHO fuel cell for you car or truck you will increase power and improve emissions.

Your car will be a water hybrid of sorts by using water. An HHO Generator creates HHO gas and is not exactly zero point energy but you can expect to see and increase in gas mileage of 20 - 50%. HHO gas car kits sell online for hundreds or even thousands of dollars and they are worth every penny! Just think how much fuel savings you would have if per vehicle and if you had a fleet of vehicles the savings could be substantial! If you have a vehicle and you would like to make your own HHO or browns gas kit for your car or truck there is a lot of information available online. How is HHO gas utilized in a gas or diesel engine. This technology can be used both for gasoline and diesel engines providing to help increase mileage. 

When you convert your car to burn on water you are converting water to a gas that your engine can use. HHO gas is then inserted before your intake manifolds airflow using your engines vacuum. This gas is then mixed with the gasoline providing better gas mileage. What is amazing is the process is so simple to convert water to gas. The parts to build this homemade hydrogen generator or hydrogen on demand system are easy to procure and most can be found around the home or shop for under $100 per vehicle or closer to $60 if you price shop online! Just think a hydrogen on demand system that costs you less than two tanks of gasoline when you fill up at the gas pump! What is nice is it requires very little modification to your vehicle and can be removed within minutes without leaving a trace. If you have seen HHO gas in use on the news than it is no surprise that this technology actually exists. It is making a comeback due to the rising costs of gasoline. If you have been watching this news this same technology has been used also for generating HHO gas for high temperature welding. 

So HHO gas has more uses other than being a gas supplement to increase mileage. There are many forums that focus on experimental HHO gas fuel cells or hydrogen cells also using a device called an aqua pulser that can even make the water fuel cell even more efficient. There are even plans and sources for creating a device that varies the frequency of the current introduced into the fuel cell to help the experimenter generate the most HHO gas. 

HHO or browns gas technology is an supplemental alternative fuel source that can help you save gas, reduce emissions, increase horsepower while providing a cleaner and quieter engine. Some are even using this technology on their motorcycles, mopeds, motor scooters, even riding lawnmowers and tractors.


