Title: 
How to Prevent Your Car Being Stolen

Word Count:
701

Summary:
This is a simple guidance to avoid you and your cars being included in next year cars stolen statistic.


Keywords:
car, vehicle, stolen, don’t, antitheft, system, devices, theft, tracking, key, antitheft devices, door, lock, systems, security, service, security sys


Article Body:
There is one vehicle stolen for every 27 second in country like USA. That
a one scary fact for all of us who own a car. Avoidance is better than
heal; this should be your ‘mantra’ if you don’t want to be the next
casualty of car theft network that is active all over the world.

If motor vehicle departments of many countries are to be believed, over
millions of cars are going to be stolen this year. But you are definitely
not going to be one of those unfortunate car owners if you keep in mind
the following tips. Never forget these words lock and key. Over fifty
percent of the car thefts occur due to driver’s forgetfulness; either he
leaves the car running, or he forgets the key in the ignition or sometimes
forgets to lock the garage door or the door of the car itself. Make sure
you roll up your windows, take the key and lock the door before leaving
the car unattended. Another useful tip is parking safety. Attended car
parks are safer than the unattended ones. Make sure the car park is well
lit. The wheels should be turned toward the side in driveways in the
parking position so that it can’t be easily towed away. If you are leaving
the car for an extended period of time, disable it by removing the
electronic ignition fuse, coil wire, rotor distributor.

Also remember, don’t make it easy for the thief. Don’t leave the
registration documents inside the Car. If you do this, it will make life
easier for the thief who will use these documents to sell your stolen car.
Preserve the title in a safe place at home. Our car mostly our second biggest investment after our home, so please do not afraid to spend in antitheft devices. To top your antitheft measure, invest in a range of antitheft devices for ultimate protection. The common antitheft devices include; fuel-kill switches, ignition-kill switches, car alarms, steering wheel locks and immobilizers. Other car security systems provide you with an anti theft solution but if your car is stolen in spite of that, then the tracking device takes centre stage and helps the police track and recover your car. Thus it provides the ultimate part of your anti-theft measures. Just like your monetary obligation doesn’t end with buying the mobile handset, in the same way buying the tracking product is only the first step. You have to pay a monthly service fee to keep the tracking service. GPS tracking system, of cause a little more investment but lot more safety. With a GPS (Global Positioning System) car tracking system, a car can be tracked on a computer map at a central monitoring station. Some of the systems come with the feature of verbal communication with the operator at the central station. This feature comes to great help particularly in the instances of car jacking.

The higher end car tracking services act on a proactive basis if the
operators find the vehicle running at an odd hour through an odd place,
they will contact the owner by phone to confirm that the owner of the
vehicle is aware of its whereabouts. Otherwise the police are informed
immediately. With a rather high product price and monthly rental service charges, car trackers are no doubt expensive. But remember, they are among the most effective security systems available today. So don’t compromise security for money. After your entire insurer may well offer up to 10% off the premium if they know your vehicle has a tracking device. Make sure, all the devices are installed properly; otherwise it may affect the car’s electrical system. It will be prudent to seek the help of a professional in this case.

Never leave valuables in plain view, even if your car is locked. Also
check with vehicle theft tracking/security system to know whether your
model belongs to the frequently stolen car model list. Get the VIN number
etched on the windows

Lastly, don’t get upset if the worst happens despite all your precautions:
Inform the police as fast as possible including the location and time of
the theft.


