Title: 
How a GPS device can make your trip more efficient and worthwhile

Word Count:
534

Summary:
I pretty much use my portable GPS navigator in my car every day, like when I’m going to visit my relatives in Mississippi.  I usually like to drive out there since I’m up here in Chicago, and I’d rather not take a plane.  If I took a plane I couldn’t stop anywhere and look at any of the interesting things along the way.


Keywords:
GPS, Global Positioning Systems, Navigation Solutions


Article Body:
I pretty much use my portable GPS navigator in my car every day, like when I’m going to visit my relatives in Mississippi.  I usually like to drive out there since I’m up here in Chicago, and I’d rather not take a plane.  If I took a plane I couldn’t stop anywhere and look at any of the interesting things along the way – I usually plan my course so that I can see as many things as possible on the way there, but without my portable GPS navigator I would be stranded on taking just one of the interstates south.  It’s just not fun driving so long without seeing anything, and I really hate airplanes – so I use mine and its map to make sure I am where I should be. 

When I do go to my aunts or grandmother’s house down in Mississippi I have to use the darn thing an awful lot so I don’t get lost on the back roads.  They live a bit out of the way, so it can be very confusing, and since I don’t visit but once or twice a year it’s hard for me to remember where I am at or which way I am going.  If I didn’t have the portable GPS I probably wouldn’t be able to find it for hours on end, but thankfully I have the portable GPS navigator in my car.  It also helped me when my cousin, Jake, had appendicitis over Thanksgiving when I drove down there.

He’d been complaining about pain in his stomach for a while, and we all thought he was being dramatic, until we realized something was wrong – so instead of waiting on an ambulance trying to find the house out there in the backwoods, I threw him in the back of the car and brought Uncle Zachariah with us, he’d never seen something like the portable GPS navigator before.  I punched in to go to the nearest hospital and we were there in about twenty minutes without one single wrong turn. Later on, after Jake had his appendix removed he made me drive him and Zachariah back to the house (this was much later on after they did their quick operation – they said if it had been any later his appendix may have burst) and they both sat there quietly watching the little screen do its work on the GPS navigator.  When we got back to the house I heard Jake begging to get one, and then I heard Zachariah begging his wife to allow it – because they were impressed. 

The rest of that weekend turned into me giving everyone a ride in the car just so they could see how it worked.  Later on I showed them my cell phone, which also has a GPS locator in it and I can display maps of where I am on it.  They were impressed, all of their cell phones did the whole instant messaging thing, but none of them had known about the portable GPS abilities that you could also get in a cellular.  Well, that’s pretty much how I use mine.


