Title: 
How To Safely Haul Your Classic Car

Word Count:
475

Summary:
This article discusses how to safely tie down and transport your classic car safely and successfully.


Keywords:
auto, classic car, car, trailer, towing, trailer


Article Body:
Begin by looking at your trailer. Is there sufficient length for the Classic Car plus enough space to operate the ratchet assemblies at the fore and aft of the bodywork?  Do you have ‘D’ rings located towards the corners of the trailer?  Is the ‘D’ ring rated for a total of 3 times the weight of the car?  Once these items have been addressed, It is time to load the car and tie it down.

Once you have loaded it onto the trailer, the next step is to connect the straps.  You can buy a complete tie down kit from Mac’s custom tie downs.  Start by connecting the twisted snap hook on the fixed end (the short end) to each of the ‘D’ rings.  Choose a set of locations to tie down to.  

Typically, on a Classic Car those locations would be through the wheel, over an axle or substantial suspension member, or possibly around a frame horn.  

Some general guidelines to keep in mind are: choose a location with enough strength to hold the Classic Car in the event of an accident, one that is free of cutting hazards, and with enough space around it to lace the axle strap.  

DO NOT run a strap where it might migrate and crush a brake line.  Also consider the effect of the movement of the Classic Car while it is traveling down the road, since what may seem like a clear space now, could become tie down strap guillotine later, if the trailer hits a hard bump.

After choosing a location, you should now run your axle strap around it.  Check the length if the standard 24” isn’t enough, don’t worry Mac’s can make the strap in any length needed in a short timeframe.  
After determining that the length is correct, align the two delta rings at the end of the axle strap together and click in the running end (long end) of the ratchet strap.  Before ratcheting the strap tight, pull the tail end of the strap through until the strap looks straight.  Now you can ratchet the strap, making sure to have two full wraps around the mandrel to ensure a positive mechanical lock.  Repeat this process at all four corners of the Classic Car.

Should you cross the straps?  Possibly.  Understand that the strap will have its maximum strength in the line it is pulling.  It is always a good idea to have the straps at the rear of the Classic Car pulling mostly straight back.  Most vehicles will out corner a trailer, so the Classic Car is more likely to come loose when an accident occurs than wander around when properly tied down.  Be sure to take a look at the setup in your trailer and make sure  that it is sensible this is the best test for tie downs.


