Title: 
Hummer H1: The Last Time To Shine

Word Count:
300

Summary:
The Hummer H1 truck has been known as a gas guzzler. It also has been crafted, designed, and popularized as a military-style status symbol. To top it all off, this vehicle has also been suffering from poor sales. That is the very reason why the company has decided to cut and entirely halt the production of the Hummer H1.


Keywords:
auto parts,Hummer,Hummer H1 parts,Hummer H2 parts,Hummer parts,Hummer accessories


Article Body:
Soon, it will be the time to say goodbye to the Hummer H1. This vehicle is actually a truck which is produced by the General Motors Corporation. One of the latest news from the company is that the Hummer H1 would soon be on the list of those that will move on no further. 

The Hummer H1 truck has been known as a gas guzzler. It also has been crafted, designed, and popularized as a military-style status symbol. To top it all off, this vehicle has also been suffering from poor sales. That is the very reason why the company has decided to cut and entirely halt the production of the Hummer H1 and instead, focus on marketing and focusing its resources on their other vehicles that sell well and bring in the cash. 

Since 1996, this vehicle has already been in production. It has been crafted in three styles which comprise of the convertible-like soft top, the four-door hard top pickup truck, and the station wagon. On the other hand, there are still some other styles for the Hummer H1 which did not quite cause a stir among automobile buyers. These other styles include the pick up truck with two doors and the slantback which holds four doors. 

The last batch of Hummer H1s would soon be rolling out the company’s production plant come June this year. It is not so effective when it comes to mileage for it could only run some 10 miles on a gallon of fuel. Despite this, the Hummer H1 would still be remembered fondly since it is the foundation of the Hummer brand. 

According to Dayna Hart, GM’s spokesperson for the Hummer brand, “We are discounting it because it’s a low volume niche vehicle and we will dedicate out resources now


