Title: 
Hummer H2: A Balance between Interior Comfort and On/Off Road Capabilities

Word Count:
387

Summary:
The Hummer H2 that was restyled and refreshed for 2005 boasts of a spacious and comfortable interior. This is because Hummer is known for its capacity and capability to perform and deliver on off road travails as well as on on-road journeys. And the Hummer H2 is no exception.


Keywords:
auto parts,hummer h2,hummer parts,hummer accessories,grille,bumpers,catalytic converter


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
The Hummer H2 that was restyled and refreshed for 2005 boasts of a spacious and comfortable interior. This is because Hummer is known for its capacity and capability to perform and deliver on off road travails as well as on on-road journeys. And the Hummer H2 is no exception. There is no need to dwell much into the fact that it can outlast any road challenges. That is why this time around, the Hummer H2 is focusing on providing extra space and more easy comfort for its passengers. Truth is Hummer claims that this vehicle is just the perfect balance between interior comfort, on road capability, and off road adventures. 

Aside from those mentioned, the Hummer H2 has also been designed, crafted, and manufactured to come with a good choice for exterior colors. The list includes Black, Birch White, Pewter Metallic, Slate Blue Metallic, Yellow, Desert Sand, Twilight Maroon Metallic, and Pacific Blue. This vehicle also has been crafted so as to feature a number of standard equipment. 

The power of the Hummer H2 comes from a Vortec 6000 V8 engine. To work with the engine is a new heavy duty 4L65 E four speed automatic transmission system with overdrive. The combination of these two is the best in its class with regards to power and performance. Combined, these give the Hummer H2 the capacity to generate an estimated 325 hp and some 385 pound feet of torque. 

Hummer has made sure that the Hummer H2 owners would be able to spruce up their vehicle any time they choose to. That is the very reason behind their creation of various Hummer H2 accessories and adds ons. The list includes brush grille guards, wrap around brush grille guards, chrome wrap around brush grille guards, grille guard mounted off road lamps, tubular assist steps, removable “U” steps, body color grilles, tubular tail lamp guards, trailer hitch and ball mounts, front hitch mounted portable winch, winching accessory kit, front hitch extenders, hitch covers, chrome fuel doors, chrome hood latches, chrome hood handles, rod hall shocks, performance exhaust systems, Neoprene seat covers, Mudder seat covers, cargo area mats, cargo area liner, custom carpet floor mats, rubber mudder floor mats, XM Satellite radios, roof rack crossbars, hard cargo carriers, soft cargo carriers, roof baskets, and roof mounted bike carriers among many others.</p>


