Title: 
Hybrids And Werewolves Share A Common Trait: Efficiency

Word Count:
923

Summary:
Sci-Fi meets the everyday, and everyday meets Sci-Fi. Hybrid vehicles represent a shift in contemporary American culture. Cars such as the Toyota Prius, Honda Civic, Honda Insight, Ford Escape, and Toyota Camry are some of the Hybrid automobiles revolutionizing the gas guzzling landscape. These cars are vital to the future of motoring and the safety of our planet.


Keywords:
new hybrid quote, hybrid car, hybrid car quote, hybrid car price, new car, new car quote, new cars, quote new cars, new car price


Article Body:
What is a Werewolf but a part wolf, and a part human? Werewolves had the guile of a man and the bite of a wolf. Likewise, Frankenstein’s monster was a hotchpotch of old body parts put together with some electricity. Even the Greeks had their idea of a hybrid; it was Chimaera, had a head of a lion, the body of a goat and the tail of a serpent. The modern equivalent of these flights of fancy is the modern gas-electric automobile called the Hybrid. Today such vehicles exist from manufacturers as diverse as Ford, Honda, and Toyota. Even BMW and Daimler-Benz are busy jointly developing Hybrids that’ll be ready for the market by 2009. And Porsche, the hallmark of racing success, is hurrying the development of a Hybrid engine for the upcoming 2007 Porsche Cayenne. With the continuous rise in gas prices, Hybrid vehicles offer the newest of the fuel-efficient technology. Soon every car maker from Mazda to Maserati will be jumping on this particular gravy train, and for good reason. 

Purchasing a Hybrid today is the modern day equivalent of taking control of higher gas prices while living the Jetsons’ lifestyle. There are nine Hybrids on the market today. Toyota leads the way with the second generation Prius posting the highest fuel efficiency at the lowest cost. For MSRP of $21,725 you get efficacy of 60 mpg city/51mpg hwy. This practical, yet sophisticatedly designed four-door, five-passenger automobile makes a statement. It says “green-mobile” anywhere you go. The endless surge of energy provided by its notably silent, but frugal engine will make you feel elated as you drive mile-after-mile with the fuel gauge stuck on full, seemingly its permanent position. Additionally, its spaciously interior, exceptionally comfortable seats, outstanding build quality, and original styling makes the Toyota Prius an excellent buy in any category. The 2006 Prius is the complete Jetsons’ vehicle available today. Rejoice, as the sci-fi future we once yearned for is finally here.  

Depending on your personality, you now have the choice between a Hybrid that looks like a traditional car or not. Unlike the distinctive Toyota Prius, the Honda Accord Hybrid and the Toyota Camry Hybrid do not shout “environmentalist” by design; rather they both blends in with the environment. If you prefer the stealth mode of a wolf in sheep’s clothing, consider either the Honda Accord Hybrid, or the Toyota Camry Hybrid as your next automobile. The Accord’s luxuriously appointed cabin, with its host of luxury amenities such as retractable sunroof, navigation system and LED lights makes this Hybrid the perfect choice for those seeking a refined but economical sedan. Fuel efficiency of 29 mpg city/37 hwy and a MSRP of $30,500 make the Honda Accord Hybrid affordable as well. Similarly, the 2007 Camry Hybrid is fully equipped with all the bells and whistles, and has a brazen exterior styling. With a MSRP of $30,900 and fuel efficiency of 30 mpg city/40 hwy – the 2007 Camry Hybrid is well positioned to be Accord’s Hybrid counterpart.

If you are looking for a compact Hybrid that conserves space as well as fuel, consider Honda’s Insight or the Civic Hybrid. Both cars have cult-like followings among compact car drivers who love the lure of hybrid technology. The Insight, with a MSRP of $21,530 attains 57 mpg city/56 mpg hwy, and features a two-door/two-passenger cabin. Its sleek exterior design and the assortment of exterior colors enhance its desirability as a niche vehicle. The compact design, however, means limited storage capacity. Alternatively, the Honda Civic Hybrid at a MSRP of $21,850 is within the same price range as the Insight, and with its contemporary good looks attains a respectful 49 mpg city/51 mpg hwy. The Civic Hybrid is unique because it looks and drives like a sports car while posting outstanding fuel efficiency numbers. 

For motoring enthusiasts who prefer greater towing capacity in your vehicles, there are four SUV Hybrids available in 2006. The Ford Escape Hybrid, for example, leads the way with an unprecedented 36 mpg city/31 mpg hwy at a MSRP of $26,900. The Escape Hybrid features a 155 horsepower engine and a luxuriously updated interior making this vehicle a good buy in this hotly sought after segment. The Lexus RX 400h pushes the envelope of luxury with an even more spacious interior and a powerful 3.3 Liter V6 268 horsepower engine. The four-door, five-passenger, Lexus RX 400h gets 33 mpg city/28mpg hwy, but costs considerably more than the Ford Escape with a MSRP of $44,660. The sumptuous sport utility segment is further enhanced with the presence of Mercury Mariner Hybrid with its 2.3 Liter engine that churns out 133 horsepower with a fuel efficiency of 33 mpg city/29 mpg hwy. With a MSRP of $29,225, the Mercury Mariner is competitively priced. Topping off the list is the Toyota Highlander Hybrid that features a 3.3 liter V6, 268 horsepower engine with the highest towing capacity of all hybrid SUVs. The Highlander’s attributes include a well-appointed cabin, bold exterior design, and fuel efficiency of 33 mpg city/28 mpg hwy. With a MSRP of $33,030 the Highlander is the right choice for travelers who value torque, towing capacity, and gas efficacy in their SUV Hybrid.

Hybrids no longer exist in the realm of myths or in fairy tales, but have become an integral part of our contemporary folklore. Hybrid cars and SUV’s let you explore the wide open roads of our beautiful country, the cul-de-sacs of our suburbs, and the busy streets and alleys of our towns and cities. Unlike regular engines, Hybrids offer an incredible way to save on fuel without compromising your need for living. Go ahead howl like the wolf.


