Title: 
Infiniti M: Promising Performance and Comfort

Word Count:
552

Summary:
The 2006 Infiniti M has an overall look that could be compared with its stylish elder and bigger brother, the Infinity G35 sedan.  It sports an aggressive yet sophisticated look and holds inside a luxurious cabin that is trimmed with leather, rosewood, or aluminum.


Keywords:
auto parts,Infinity parts,wheels,hood


Article Body:
A luxury sports sedan made available in five trims, the 2006 Infiniti M sports four doors and takes up a maximum of five passengers as per its seating capacity. This vehicle has been completely redesigned for this year. It sports an aggressive yet sophisticated look and holds inside a luxurious cabin that is trimmed with leather, rosewood, or aluminum. Comfortable seats are the in thing for this vehicle, as well as an excellent performance.

The 2006 Infiniti M has an overall look that could be compared with its stylish elder and bigger brother, the Infinity G35 sedan. It could be because both sports crispy lines. However, the Infinity M bears the remarkable Infiniti badge that has been mounted in the center of the grille. The edge of the hood of this vehicle cuts into the headlight cover along with three jeweled lamps behind it so as to provide the front with a sophisticated yet fairly aggressive look. It also has a hood that a high back edge that serves to hide the windshield wipers as well as help the top of the fenders flow back and up into the A-pillar. The features for this vehicle do not only give a different and unique kind of look but it also gives out an added capacity for this luxury sports sedan’s performance and ride.

As per the introduction of the 2006 Infiniti M, it holds two engine types, depending on the M’s trim levels. The engines are the 4.5 liter, 32 valve V8 engine, and the 3.5 liter V8 engine. The trim levels also have a rear wheel drive, or have the optional intelligent all-wheel drive. Also, this vehicle is claimed to have been designed so as to maneuver, so much so that it holds curves that makes and provides the utmost intense connection between the driver and the Infiniti M. Its interior has also been specially designed so as to engage drivers and passengers with an atmosphere that provides maximum comfort and relaxation for them. And for safety, the Infiniti M also holds the capacity to protect its passengers.

This new luxury sports sedan holds a varied collection of features. The list includes a rear active steer (this system alters the angle of the vehicle’s rear wheels thus helping out vehicle track more quickly and precisely); a lighter weight (aluminum alloy is used on the doors, hood, trunk lid, and most components of the Infiniti M’s engine and suspension); an intelligent all wheel drive (this system is capable of sending virtually all the power to the rear wheels); a rear wheel drive (for a more precise handling); 19-inch wheels (the Infiniti M is the only vehicle to sport these wheels); a multi-link suspension (this provides the Infiniti M an exquisite ride quality along with firm and taut handling); a sport-bolstered steering (for enabling superior handling); climate-controlled front seats (giving passengers the climate that they desire); and a comfortable interior (made up of generous and rich materials that makes up a sleek and modern cabin) among all others.

This elegant and modern Infiniti M has been specifically designed so as to provide the utmost performance combined with the perfect luxury that seems to entice people the world over. Auto Parts Discount provides Infiniti owners the finest performance and replacement Infiniti parts that are unmatched anywhere else.


