Title: 
Information On Tonneau Covers

Word Count:
428

Summary:
Tonneau covers are attached to your truck bed to create space which is protected from theft and bad weather. They will also improve the conservation of oil within your vehicle, and will make it much more aerodynamic.


Keywords:
tonneau covers


Article Body:
Tonneau covers are attached to your truck bed to create space which is protected from theft and bad weather. They will also improve the conservation of oil within your vehicle, and will make it much more aerodynamic. Tonneau covers are typically made out of molds which are specifically designed for the type of truck you have. They will fit around your truck in such a way that they will give it a sleek look.

Tonneau covers can be expensive. High quality hard covers could cost as much as $1000. They can be custom painted to match the color of your truck, and you will want to give the instructions for this prior to purchasing them. Aluminum covers are cheaper, and will cost around $400. They don't fit along the contours of your truck, and you only have a few colors to choose from. Before you purchase a cover, it is important to remember that they are heavy, are are not easy to remove frequently.

It generally takes two or more people to remove a cover from a truck. Despite this, some truck owners have developed methods for handling the tonneau covers themselves. You should make sure you understand the lift system which comes with the cover. Many truck beds are not designed to withstand the pressure of 200 pounds pushing down on them constantly. This is why you should know more about the lift system. Some use gas props which will add more pressure to the truck bed than just the cover itself.

Some companies have added systems to their covers which reduce the amount of weight added to the truck bed, and will reduce the pressure of the gas props as well. By reducing the pressure, the life of the truck bed will be extended. You will also want to figure out which features you want to add to your tonneau cover. There are a large number of options, including third brake lights, safety glass, paint finish, power locks, or a windshield wiper. The list goes on, and you will want to get options that fit within your budget.

There are a large variety of tonneau covers available, and it is important to pick the one which suits you best. They are an expensive investment, but will keep your cargo from being damaged by rain or stolen by thieves. If you don't plan on removing the cover often, you may want to invest money on a hard cover. If you are on a budget and one something that is easy to remove, a soft cover may be the best option.


