Title: 
Installing Custom Sheepkin Seat Covers

Word Count:
462

Summary:
Step by step instructions for installing custom sheepskin seat covers.


Keywords:
Seat Covers, Sheepskin Seat Covers, Seat Cover Install


Article Body:
Installing your new seat covers can be a pain at time. But by following these simple instructions you will find the installation will go a lot smoother.

First off, if your car has removeable headrests you will need to take those off first. Most of the time there will be a release button at the top of your seat. 

Now once you have the headrests off, if there were any, it's time to start putting on the seat covers. Just follow these easy 7 steps.

1. Begin at the top of the seat, slowly pulling the seat cover down over the shoulder of the seat. Take a moment to make sure that the seat cover is centered on the seat.

2. Take the centre straps and push them through the space in between the backrest and the seat cushion. You will need to reach around and pull them all the way through from the other side. This process can be done easily by kneeling on the seat cushion to create a larger space, or tilting the seat back.

3. From the back of the seat, grab the center straps and hook them to the underside of the seat. The hooks can be fastened to the springs or any metal edges down there. Note: Do not hook the straps to the sliding track of the seat or any electrical wiring there may be.

Be careful to keep your head clear when attaching the straps, if they slip out they can shoot back and cause injury.

For 2 door cars, be sure to leave enough slack for the seat to move forward, allowing people to get into the back seat. If the straps are too taught, they may break when the seat in tilted forward.

4. Now take the side straps and push them through centre at each side of the seat. Pull the straps down and back and hook them to the underside of the seat, again being careful not to put the straps in the way of the sliding track.

5. Pull seatcover forward and smooth out over seat cushions and sides. Pull straps at front and hook to underside of the seat.

6. Sit down in your seat and check to make sure that the cover is fitted properly to the seat and not off centre.

If your car has adjustable headrests, you may now need to get a sharp knife and make a small cut to allow you to re-insert your headrests. This can be done from sitting in the back of the seat. Line up the knife with the headrest holes in the seat and then move the sheepskin away from the seat (by lifting up) when cutting holes. Make sure you cut through the sheepskin and lining.

You're done, now go for a drive and enjoy.


