Title: 
Installing Headlight Covers

Word Count:
488

Summary:
Headlight covers are one of the accessories that are most often used by car owners and enthusiasts who have vehicles and cars that they show off at car and auto shows. They are also often added to give the vehicle a more aesthetic appeal.


Keywords:
auto parts,GMC truck accessories,Gmc parts,headlight covers


Article Body:
Headlight covers are one of the accessories that are most often used by car owners and enthusiasts who have vehicles and cars that they show off at car and auto shows. However, practicality wise, headlight covers are not usually used by ordinary motorists on their vehicles. These accessories are usually just to add a more stylish appeal and design to car show entrants. They are also often added to give the vehicle a more aesthetic appeal. 

To have headlight covers for your auto show entrant, you can simply purchase headlight cover kits from your trusted auto parts dealer. There are two kits that you actually have to purchase. One kit would be that that consists of a cover and the molded clips. The other kit would be the one that holds decal patterns, plus stickers, and labels. 

Each of these kits contains instructions on how to use them as well as how to install them. Go through each one and be familiar with the pieces of information provided. These would assist you when you would be doing the actual installation. When you are about to start the process, gather the following tools and materials: a lens cleaner, a squeegee, masking tape, soap solution, and vinyl decals. You would be using these as you go along. 

First clean the surface of each headlight lens. Then, put on the cover on the car. Put up the decals on the lens on the locations where you choose them to be. Mark off these locations. Use tape on the outside of the headlight cover to show you the locations. Remove the cover then and spray the lens with soap solution. By doing such, the stencil will be held in place. 

Next, apply the stencils on the lens. Place then on the location and areas where you actually want the light to shine through when the cover is already installed. Keep in mind that once you put on the cover, the rest of the areas would be covered in paint. Once you accomplished the location of your stencils, run the squeegee over the stencils. Work outward from the center and this action removes any air pockets. 

The face of the lens should be masked off. By doing such, you are preventing any kind of overspray from getting on you vehicle’s shield. Next, clean the lens with glass cleaner and then allow it to dry. Once dry, apply the paint. When the paint is dry, use a razor blade or a sharp knife to lift off the decals and the stencils. Make sure that you do this carefully. Then, place the lens on the vehicle and clean it with plastic or Plexiglas cleaner. 

For the most trusted and most reliable source of superb and quality accessories, there is no other car parts and accessories supplier than Auto Accessories Giant. It has a well-stocked collection of GMC Truck accessories and accessories for other brands.


