Title: 
Installing an Amplifier into your Car

Word Count:
369

Summary:
With many car audio systems out there falling well short of tolerable a ideal solution is the addition of an amplifier. An amplifier can be used for one of two things. It can be used to power speakers the speakers that are in the cabin of the car or they can be used to power a sub-woofer in the boot of the car. Both uses provide a greater listening experience.


Keywords:
car audio


Article Body:
With many car audio systems out there falling well short of tolerable a ideal solution is the addition of an amplifier. An amplifier can be used for one of two things. It can be used to power speakers the speakers that are in the cabin of the car or they can be used to power a sub-woofer in the boot of the car. Both uses provide a greater listening experience.

Installing an amplifier is not as difficult as many think. It is a simple 2 hour task that can be performed by anyone with a little knowledge of the electrics of a car. The first thing to do would be to connect the wires to the back of the stereo. This involves taking the stereo out of the dash so you can access the RCA plugs at the back of the stereo. Depending on the amount of channels the amplifier has, usually 4 or 2, there will be 2 RCA plugs. You need to plug these RCA cables into the back of the stereo. The second wire to plug into the back of the stereo is the remote wire. This wire tells the amplifier to turn on and off with the stereo. 

Once the plugs are in the back of the stereo you need to run the wires to the boot of the car. This is done through the cabin and can be concealed under plastic panels on the door trims on the floor of the car. Once the wire’s have been run you need to connect the other ends to the amplifier. This is a simple task as all sockets on the amplifier are labeled. Once the wires are in you simply need to wire up the speaker wires to your sub-woofer or your speakers and test the sound. If there is no sound you need to back track and see where you went wrong. If the sound is working you need to go ahead and secure the amplifier somewhere in the boot so it doesn’t move around while you’re driving.

Most car audio installers will charge you an arm and a leg to install an amplifier when it is quite simple and can be done by most people.


