Title: 
Is Your Air Filter Filthy?

Word Count:
477

Summary:
Having your air filter changed at your local garage shop or mechanic could actually cost you so much more than what it would cost you if you did everything yourself. The truth is, changing air filters is easy as counting “1-2-3”. And yes, you would be saving yourself some extra dollars.


Keywords:
auto parts,Rover parts,Rover accessories,electrical engine parts,air filter


Article Body:
Having your air filter changed at your local garage shop or mechanic could actually cost you so much more than what it would cost you if you did everything yourself. The truth is, changing air filters is easy as counting “1-2-3”. And yes, you would be saving yourself some extra dollars. 

Of course, you would have to check your car’s air filter first. You would have to see if you do need to change it or if the air filter still could do its job properly. To check your air filter, make sure first that your car’s engine is cool. You would not want to go checking underneath your car’s hood with a still steaming engine underneath. Pop up the hood. Do not forget to prop it up. Then, make sure that you do have the needed materials at hand. For this activity, you would be needing two medium-sized screwdrivers. There should be one standard screwdriver and one Phillips. 

How do you find the air filter? Well, the air filter is generally enclosed in a black plastic casing. This plastic casing is located near the center top of the engine. Automobile experts would describe finding the air filter as trying to locate the largest non-metal assembly under the hood. It would be around the size of a breadbox. 

When you have already found it, the next part would be opening it. For this part, you would be needing the screwdriver for this box is actually held together by a couple of large metal clips on the side. Simply slide the flat-dead screwdriver between the casing and the clip. Just pry the casing open and you would be able to open it. However, there are some that really have some screws that hold the box together. If this is the case, then unscrew them first. 

Once opened, you will find the air filter inside. It comes with the colors bright yellow, orange, or red. Pull the air filter out. You would see that it is flat, elongated, and would measure about a foot long by six inches wide and would have a height of around two inches. It has been crafted from paper filament and has rubber edges along the bottom. 

Hold the air filter up and bend it back. Look inside the crevices. Hold it at arms length and look at it. If you see a lot of accumulated dirt and grime, especially mostly in the center of the air filter, it is then time to change it. 

Replacement for your air filter could be easily found at Land Rover Parts and Range Rover Parts. They offer other auto parts for Land Rover vehicles like electrical engine parts. Aside from offering quality products, Land Rover Parts and Range Rover Parts also has a great customer service to assist patrons in their various auto parts needs.


