Title: 
Isuzu Amigo: Claiming Its Right to Fame

Word Count:
347

Summary:
Despite the fact that it was a new addition to the market where sport utility vehicles were taking most of the share, the Isuzu Amigo was able to shine through. It even took up a fair share of the SUV and the automobile market. It took the interest of the generation X who were craving for a sporty and flashy sport utility vehicle that held a very reasonable price.


Keywords:
auto parts,Isuzu,Isuzu amigo,Isuzu parts


Article Body:
The automobile market was actually monopolized in the 1980s by full size sport utility vehicles. However, come the spring of 1989, in the midst of all those full size SUVs came a compact SUV. It was a sporty mini SUV. It was the Isuzu Amigo. 

It came both in a two wheel drive and a four wheel drive. There also were two choices for the engine. The two wheel drive is matched to the 2.3 liter engine with four cylinders and can produce some 96 units of horsepower. As per the four wheel drive, it got matched with the 2.6 liter engine with four cylinders and could produce some 120 horsepower. Both of these engines held a five speed manual transmission system. 

Despite the fact that it was a new addition to the market where sport utility vehicles were taking most of the share, the Isuzu Amigo was able to shine through. It even took up a fair share of the SUV and the automobile market. It took the interest of the generation X who were craving for a sporty and flashy sport utility vehicle that held a very reasonable price. Not only does the Isuzu Amigo look good but it also drives good. It has a small engine that means it uses up a lesser amount of gas compared to the full size ones out in the market. 

Just like any other vehicle on the market, the Isuzu Amigo has undergone and received various changes. In 1999, a year after it was introduced, it came as a new hardtop wagon with a pop up sunroof over the rear seat. There also was a heated rear window that joined the original semi-convertible. The cruise control system was deleted from the list of features. In 2000, the Isuzu Amigo came with a restyled nose and tail as well. The Isuzu Amigo came then with a standard cruise control as well as adjustable shock absorbers to add to the features that it would boast of. There also was an Intelligent Suspension Control made optional. A year after in 2001, it came with an added rear cargo tray.


