Title: 
It Is Time to Ship Your Car

Word Count:
375

Summary:
You may have changed residences from Chicago to California. That sure is a long way off and driving your car could prove to be quite a long road trip. Maybe it is time that you have your car shipped to your new place instead of taking that long drive.


Keywords:
auto parts,Hummer,Hyundai,Hummer accessories,Hyundai accessories


Article Body:
You may have changed residences from Chicago to California. That sure is a long way off and driving your car could prove to be quite a long road trip. Maybe it is time that you have your car shipped to your new place instead of taking that long drive. 

It is best that you first decide when would be the best time to move your car. That way, you can actually plan ahead and make your car ready for shipment. When you have already decided when the shipping would take place, it is time to call several moving companies. Inform them about the type and kind of car that you are moving. Also, inform them the specific locations of the move – from where you are moving your car to the place where your car will be shipped. Also give them the data on the date when you plan to do the shipping. 

List down your choices of moving companies. To be safe, check these companies out with the Better Business Bureau. You surely would like to have your vehicle shipped and handled by a good and trusted company. From there, you can make your choice of company. 

Call up your choice company and inquire about the kind of insurance coverage that the company has with regards to shipments. Also ask if there is a deductible. Ask for their insurance policy carefully even if they might be written in fine print then ask for a copy so you could also review them over yourself at home. 

On the day that you will be moving your vehicle, be alert. Check if the mover will be filling out a bill of lading. This includes a report of the condition of your car before loading. Read the whole report. Before you sign it, make sure that you agree with the report. Then, ask about the pick up dates and times as well as the delivery time. Any promises of the date and time should be given in writing as well as any conditions if these are not met. All your personal belongings should be removed from your car. Remember that these items are not covered by the carrier’s insurance. 

Upon delivery, check your car and note any problems.


