Title: 
Jaguar For Me; Jag For You?

Word Count:
398

Summary:
The cat is back! Jaguar, that is. Once nearly invisible in the US market, Jaguar is poised to leap forward on the backs of several new models. Please keep reading for all the details.


Keywords:
discount Jaguar parts, Jaguar S Type, Jaguar X Type, Jaguar XK8


Article Body:
The British automaker, Jaguar, has certainly stepped it up a notch over the past decade. Don’t tell the British, but Ford Motor Company’s purchase of the venerable brand likely saved the company from oblivion. The cat is back. Read on for updates about this feline marquee.

I have a friend, his name shall remain anonymous to protect the guilty, and whose knowledge about Jaguar is fairly limited to put it kindly. Both of us enjoy cars, particularly powerful American coupes, and the occasional sedan or hot wagon, such as the Dodge Magnum. When Lincoln’s new LS made its debut more than five years ago I remarked how the Ford Motor Company crafted both it and the Jaguar “S” type from the same platform and that this was the first shared venture between the two companies ever. My buddy was perplexed as he considered what I had said. He then retorted, “how can Ford and GM build from the same car?”  Huh?! I was mystified at first, but then I realized his ignorance was typical of many Americans regarding the British automaker: they just did not know the brand. 

Unfortunately for Jaguar beyond shows such as <i>Masterpiece Theatre</i>, not too many Americans outside of major cities were familiar with the Jaguar brand. Today, that has all changed. With the introduction of the “S” type, a midsize sedan and the “X” type an AWD sedan, America’s perception of Jaguar – or Jag-you-are as some are want to pronounce it has changed dramatically… and for the better. Jaguar still produces larger sedans including the XJ and the XK, but it is the smaller cars that are receiving the most notice and producing the badly needed sales and revenue for Jaguar.

Even further down the line, Jaguar is really poised to pounce. An all new XK8, a 2+2 rear wheel drive coupe. Departing from Jaguar tradition, the XK8 will have a mostly aluminum veneer, with woods such as poplar and walnut optional. Retailing at $75K the XK8 will also be sold as a convertible.

Additional coupes and an SUV are also being planned and it is expected that the broader selection of vehicles will grow the brand in the US as well as in the UK. Gone are the days of V12 Jaguars, but in its place are some truly outstanding cars that are certain to capture the attention of the car buying public.


