Title: 
Jaguar S-Type: A Blend of Performance and Prestige

Word Count:
461

Summary:
The Jaguar has certainly come through a lot and has acquired quite a name for itself with many important and popular people using it themselves. One of the newest Jaguars introduced to the market is the 2006 Jaguar S-type. It is a four-door luxury sports sedan that is capable of having five passengers.


Keywords:
auto parts,jaguar parts,electrical engine parts,jaguar Stype parts


Article Body:
Jaguar Cars is actually a British based subsidiary of the American Ford Motor Company that is quite famous for its production and manufacturing of luxury saloon and sports cars. It has both performance and luxury and occupies the markets for both. Its competition is quite diverse and includes the BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Porsche, Cadillac, Lexus, Infiniti, and the Lincoln which is another subsidiary of the Ford. 

The Jaguar has certainly come through a lot and has acquired quite a name for itself with many important and popular people using it themselves. The British Prime Minister Tony Blaire is driven around in a bottle-green Jaguar XJ8. In the British television series Minder, the character Arthur Daley is seen to be driving a Jaguar XJ6. Inspector Morse in the British television series of the same name used a Jaguar Mark 2 to drive about his travails. Harold, of Harold and Maude, had a Jaguar E-Type hearse. The film 52 Pick-Up had featured a silver Jaguar E-type, and Austin Powers also drove the same type of vehicle, and calling it a “Shaguar”. The 1968 movie Danger: Diabolik, Diabolik drove a black Jaguar E-type and his love interest, Eva, had used a white one. The Heist which is a made-for cable 1989 film had featured two dark green Jauar XJS couples. In the music scene, Sting drove a Jaguar for his music video for the song “Desert Rose”, and due to this, the song had been used in past Jaguar commercials. 

At present, the Jaguar line up includes the X-type which is a mid-size saloon; the S-type which is a luxury saloon; the XJ6, XJ8, and the XJR, which are full-size saloons; and the XK8 and XKR, which are sports cars and convertibles. 

One of the newest Jaguars introduced to the market is the 2006 Jaguar S-type. It is a four-door luxury sports sedan that is capable of having five passengers. This car was styled by the late Geoff Lawson. In 2004, this had undergone a minor facelift that refined the car’s overall appearance, and also received an aluminum hood. Advantages of this vehicle, as compared to other vehicles in its class, includes Anti-Lock Braking System (ABS), air conditioning, alarm, automatic transmission, CD player, child safety locks, child seat tethers, an above average highway mileage, leather seats, power windows and locks, side airbags, side impact door beams, a sunroof, and traction control. 

For the most trusted and reliable source of superb quality engine parts, electrical engine parts and other Jaguar parts, like Jaguar Stype parts, there is no other car parts online supplier than Jaguar Parts and Jaguar Auto Parts. 

This model has been first introduced in 1999 as a 2000 model. It bore the name of the first S-Type that was introduced in 1964. In 2008, it is expected to be updated yet again.


