Title: 
Jaguar XK-E: Changing Sports Car Norms

Word Count:
478

Summary:
The Jaguar XK-E is also known as the Jaguar E Type. Many people agree that it is one of the greatest cars that have been ever built for it holds not only style and performance by also pedigree.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar accessories,Jaguar parts,Jaguar xke,brakes,clutch parts,transmission system


Article Body:
During the early stages of the Jaguar XK-E, the vehicle was supposedly planned to be marketed as a grand tourer. In fact, it was shown to be public as such. However, changes were made and now, the Jaguar XK-E holds two seats and has been crafted and manufactured to be a coupe, and as a convertible. The coupe body trim is known as the FHC or the Fixed Head Coupe, while on the other hand, the convertible is known as the OTS or the Open Two Seater. 

Several years after its release, the Jaguar XK-E welcomed a new version in its line and it was the 2 + 2 version. This new model had a much longer wheelbase compared to the earlier versions. Also, people who have come to be followers of the Jaguar XK-E says that, indeed, there have been three generations of this vehicle and these are called the “Series 1”, the “Series 2”, and the “Series 3”. 

The Jaguar XK-E is also known as the Jaguar E Type. Many people agree that it is one of the greatest cars that have been ever built for it holds not only style and performance by also pedigree. By pedigree, it means that it was exquisitely and carefully done that each part has a specific job to do. In fact, the shell of the Jaguar XK-E has been designed and is the brain child of one very good aerodynamics engineer. Also, it held the engine that had high specifications and features. This engine held greater power and capacity compared to the famous Jaguar XK engine. 

From 1961 and up until 1974, the Jaguar XK-E roared on the streets and made heads turn. It was actually manufactured by Jaguar Cars. Going back to automobile history, this vehicle and sports car was very much responsible for paving the way in revolutionizing and changing the sports cars designs as well as the sports cars’ performance, and handling. This vehicle was also marketed to be one of the not-so-pricey and that certainly helped the Jaguar XK-E in boosting its sales as well as its popularity. 

Jaguar Parts and Jaguar Auto Parts’ high quality Jaguar parts, body parts, replacement parts, performance parts, and Jaguar accessories can maintain all of the impressive qualities that all Jaguar vehicles, like the Jaguar XK-E, holds. Years of delivering superior products lines have made Jaguar Parts and Jaguar Auto Parts a favorite among Jaguar car enthusiasts.

All genuine quality Jaguar air intake system parts, brakes, climate control, clutch parts, cooling system parts, exhaust system parts, fuel injection parts, fuel system parts, service tools, steering parts, suspension parts, and transmission parts to name a few are available to Jaguar enthusiasts and customers in great discounts and wholesale deals. These exceptional arrays of finely crafted Jaguar XKE parts and Jaguar parts are online. Also, these parts are guaranteed to be durable and made from premium and quality materials.


