Title: 
Jaguar XK 8: Sporty Yet Classy

Word Count:
350

Summary:
The Jaguar XK 8 has been crafted as coupes and convertibles. This vehicle also sports long and elegant lines that have made it quite a distinct vehicle that surely exudes luxury and sophistication. This vehicle is the first vehicle from Jaguar to receive eight cylinders which is called the new Jaguar AJ V8 engine.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar XK 8,Jaguar parts,Jaguar accessories,Jaguar transmission parts,Jaguar exhaust system


Article Body:
From the Jaguar brand of vehicles comes yet another vehicle that is surely on its way to speeding up to popularity and fame. This vehicle is the Jaguar XK 8, and it is a part of Jaguar’s XK series. This series has been considered to be a modern Grand Touring coupe and convertible from the brand. 

The production of the Jaguar XK 8 had actually started back in the year 1996 although the very first vehicles were set out and sold in the market come the following year. This vehicle replaced the niche that the defunct Jaguar XJS left behind when its production was permanently halted. It has already gone through a first generation and is currently on its second. Indeed, the Jaguar XK 8 has been making breakthroughs and achieving them for Jaguar. This vehicle is the first vehicle from Jaguar to receive eight cylinders which is called the new Jaguar AJ V8 engine. 

The Jaguar XK 8 has been crafted as coupes and convertibles. This vehicle also sports long and elegant lines that have made it quite a distinct vehicle that surely exudes luxury and sophistication. It has a 2 + 2 seating. And yes, despite its being elegant and sophisticated, the Jaguar XK 8 also performs well and is up for speed. It has been equipped with an engine that could produce some 290 units of horsepower. 

Comfort has also been considered by the company when they produced the Jaguar XK 8. For drivers, this vehicle is one that they certainly would want to drive over and over again. It holds Connolly leather seats that are not too firm yet not too soft either. Space and roominess has also not been sacrificed so as not to give passengers a suffocating and very uncomfortable feel. The Jaguar XK 8 can actually accelerate from zero to 60 mph in just 6.6 seconds. Its engine is a DOHC V8 engine with 32 valves. This machine has the capacity to produce some 290 units of horsepower at 6100 rpm and some 290 units of torque at 4250 rpm. Its top speed has been recorded as 155 mph. It can achieve 17 mpg for city driving and 24 mpg as per highway travails.


