Title: 
Jaguar Brand Proud Of XKR Model

Word Count:
300

Summary:
The turbocharged Jaguar XKR now holds the status as the flagship of the whole brand and of the XK-series vehicles. And the power for this exemplary vehicle comes from a 4.2 V8 engine which has been supercharged and which boasts of 420 bhp.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar parts and repairs,Jaguar accessories


Article Body:
Design. Engineering. Performance. Appeal. 

These are just a few of the features that the Jaguar brand is proud of when it comes to the Jaguar XKR model. And yes, the start of Jaguar’s boasting of the newest vehicle for the Jaguar XKR started during the British International Motor Show which was held in London. And the newest baby has been designed and produced to be a supercharged one. 

“The XKR is the ultimate expression of Jaguar design and engineering, dramatically beautiful, perfectly balanced and with a promise of performance to make the heart race. The car delivers blistering acceleration, superb driving dynamics and pin sharp handling.” These are the words given out by Jaguar in reference to the supercharged model XKR. 

The Jaguar XKR has been known by other names. You can call it the XK8, or the XK but it all still would refer to the Jaguar XKR. Of course, this vehicle is manufactured by the Ford Motor Company only that it is marketed and sold bearing the Jaguar nameplate. Since 1997, the streets and the roads have been familiar with this one. And services and products like Jaguar parts and repairs have been available. Made as a GT car, the Jaguar XKR has been crafted in two body styles – the sports car with two doors and the convertible that holds two as well. 

The turbocharged Jaguar XKR now holds the status as the flagship of the whole brand and of the XK-series vehicles. And the power for this exemplary vehicle comes from a 4.2 V8 engine which has been supercharged and which boasts of 420 bhp. It has also been made available in the market as a coupe or as a convertible. Rev up the Jaguar XKR and you get to reach 62 miles per hour from zero in just 4.9 seconds.


