Title: 
Jaguar XK: Powerfully Elegant

Word Count:
302

Summary:
$74,385 would be so you surely can own one of the latest 2007 Jaguar XK series coupe models. It now comes equipped with a 4.2 liter V8 engine.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar parts,XJS Jaguar parts,Jaguar accessories


Article Body:
Got $74,385? No. Not to buy a new set of XJS Jaguar parts. $74,385 would be so you surely can own one of the latest 2007 Jaguar XK series coupe models. It now comes equipped with a 4.2 liter V8 engine that could produce 300 units of horsepower, and it has also been built with an accompanying chassis made out of aluminum. For city driving, you can get 18 miles per gallon out of it and some 26 mpg for cruising down highways. Just by the name that it holds, the Jaguar XK is a superb vehicle and surely exudes class and power. Is it not something you would want to own? 

What is new about this new 2007 Jaguar XK is that it is very fast, even much faster than the models before it. And to add to that note, its speed is a product of its getting lighter. In fact, according to the Jaguar brand, it is now five per cent lighter. The previous models were already topnotch vehicles and with changes like this, it not would be very surprising to find that this vehicle has maintained its reign as the best selling sports car for all time for the Jaguar brand. 

This sports car has a huge amount of standard equipment made available for all interested parties. You can count in the usual like traction control, stability control and antilock brakes. You can also find whiplash reducing front seats included in the list. For added safety, Jaguar has added in a tire pressure monitoring system as a standard feature. Oh, and do not forget fun features like the DVD navigation system, plus a keyless start. Jaguar also boasts that the Jaguar XK has an adaptive suspension system, power adjustable front seats that are also heated and has a memory function, and parking sensors are also included. 
</p>


