Title: 
Jaguar XK 150: Roadster Extreme

Word Count:
485

Summary:
The Jaguar XK 150 vehicle is a roadster and also has been made with several versions like the fixed coupe and the drophead coupe. This vehicle actually replaced the Jaguar XK 140. And it has existed from 1957 up until 1961. The Jaguar XK 150 sports a different look. It is shorter and could only take in into its cabin a maximum of two people.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar xk 150,Jaguar parts,Jaguar accessories,mechanical engine parts,exhaust system,fuel injection parts


Article Body:
Jaguar is known for its vehicles that have been crafted with graceful style coupled with a superb and excellent performance. One of the vehicles that run under this brand is the Jaguar XK 150. And this vehicle is a roadster and also has been made with several versions like the fixed coupe and the drophead coupe. The roadster version, however, appeared ten months after the introduction of the other two. As per the Jaguar XK 150 roadster, it was essentially designed so as to be the right kind of vehicle that would tackle and spin through the hot and sunny months. This new vehicle holds proper wind up door windows as well as door handles. It also has an improved hood design. Some people say that the Jaguar XK 150 is much more civilized and more appealing than the earlier roadster vehicles from Jaguar like the Jaguar XK 120 and the Jaguar XK 140. 

Equally impressive and highly durable Jaguar auto body parts, performance parts, replacement parts, discount parts, and accessories are available at Jaguar Parts and Jaguar Auto Parts’ online store. When you need parts like accessories, mechanical engine parts, exhaust system parts, and fuel injection parts to name a few, first class quality products like these are available at Jaguar Parts and Jaguar Auto Parts. Each of these will put you on top of the race due to its strict quality control measures. The number one provider of the best Jaguar parts online also offers Jaguar XK 150 parts and other Jaguar parts in great discount prices.

This vehicle actually replaced the Jaguar XK 140. And it has existed from 1957 up until 1961. The Jaguar XK 150 sports a different look. It is shorter and could only take in into its cabin a maximum of two people. Despite that, the Jaguar XK 150 holds a longer bonnet and a revised front scuttle panel. This kind of change has given the Jaguar XK 150 a more rakish and sleeker kind of look. It is even more modern compared to the other two previously mentioned Jaguar roadsters.

The differences between the other roadsters and the Jaguar XK 150 is that the latter uses a one piece windscreen. The wing line also did not dropped that much over the doors. The bonnet was widened and opened down to the wings. The bulkhead was moved to make it around four inches longer. A wide range of color choices were made available for this vehicle and the list includes Red, Pearl Grey, White, Indigo Blue, Claret, Cotswold Blue, Black, Mist Grey, Sherwood Green, Carmen Red, British racing Green, Cornish Grey and Imperial Maroon.

Just like the Jaguar XK 140, the Jaguar XK 150 also held a 3.4 liter DOHC Jaguar straight 6 engine. It could actually produce some 180 bhp at 5750 rpm. Although, through the years that it was manufactured, this roadster had several other engines equipped in it so as to produce more power and be able to produce a much more superb performance.


