Title: 
Jaguar X Type: The Classic Luxury Sports Car

Word Count:
420

Summary:
Built on a modified version of the Ford CD 132 platform, the Jaguar X Type is considered to be just another version of the Ford Mondeo. The Jaguar X Type is one of the smallest of the brand’s saloon cars. This vehicle has also been the vehicle that has made many firsts for the Jaguar brand. For $36,295, you can own the Jaguar X Type Sport.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar X type,Jaguar parts,Jaguar 340 parts,Jaguar XKR parts,Jaguar accessories


Article Body:
Built on a modified version of the Ford CD 132 platform, the Jaguar X Type is considered to be just another version of the Ford Mondeo. Take away the badge and the name from the Ford Mondeo and put in Jaguar badges, you would be getting the the Jaguar X Type. In fact the platform which it was built on was just a modified version of the Ford CDW 27 platform which is what the Ford Mondeo uses. Production for this vehicle has started since 2001 and still continue up at present. The Jaguar X Type is one of the smallest of the brand’s saloon cars. This was actually built so as to take part of the success that the Jaguar S Type has been reaping in. 

Classic. That is what best describes the Jaguar X Type. Yet, the power, the delivery, and the performance is very much high technology and very modern. This vehicle has also been the vehicle that has made many firsts for the Jaguar brand. It was the first Jaguar to have an all wheel drive system. It also was the brand’s first entry to the mid sized luxury sports car category. 

This vehicle has been crafted and manufactured with a couple of trim levels made available. Of course, each of these trim levels come with certain amenities and features that are unique to the others. 

The Jaguar X Type 3.0 could be yours if you have some $33,995 to spend. It is said to be a luxurious departure from the typical sports sedans. It holds a 227 horsepower 3.0 liter V6 engine and has a five speed automatic transmission. The trim on its console and doors are made up of Bronze Sapele wood veneer trim. It has a steering wheel wrapped in leather, and the same goes to its steering wheel. For $36,295, you can own the Jaguar X Type Sport. It has an aggressive styling and holds a sport tuned suspension. As per the Jaguar X Type VDP Edition, you can have this for $35,945. Indeed, this vehicle is known to be an elegant one. It has rain sensing wipers as well as a memory function on the driver’s seat and door mirrors, heated seats, and a trip computer. As per the Jaguar X Type Sportwagon, it is considered to be the most unique and very much practical sportwagon in the auto market. For $36,995, you can own this one. It has a one touch power tilt and slide glass moonroof with manual sunshade as well as fixed silver roof rails.


