Title: 
Jeep Radiator's Reliable Backup

Word Count:
343

Summary:
Step up the heat in your Jeep's engine. Our Jeep Expansion Tanks will make sure that your cooling system gets the extra lift.


Keywords:
Jeep Expansion Tanks


Article Body:
Constant fuel combustion results to the heating up of vehicle engine. Because of this, the coolant present in the engine expands. This is especially true with the grueling condition of terrains that all-wheel drive vehicles, like the Jeep face. For this reason, Jeep Expansion Tanks are needed. Jeep's expansion tank, also known as overflow tank, coolant reservoir, or overflow canister, is a chamber that supplies storage space for the coolant when it expands. Jeep Expansion Tanks are usually linked to the radiator's overflow tube.

How do Jeep Expansion Tanks function? When a Jeep engine cools down, a vacuum is produced in the vehicle's cooling system. This process, in turn, results to the sucking of coolant in the Jeep expansion tube back into the system. The coolant can move between the system and the expansion tank as it expands and contracts. This is because the cooling system that contains a Jeep expansion tube  is a sealed system. As a result, no coolant is lost. A lack of a Jeep expansion tank may cause the coolant to flow out of the overflow tube and the cooling system, spilling onto streets or roads.	

Another crucial job of <a href="http://www.jpartsonline.com/jeepexpansiontank.html" target="_blank">Jeep Expansion Tanks</a>  is to get rid of air bubbles from the cooling systems of Cherokee, Compass, Commander, Liberty, and Wrangler. Coolant without air bubbles absorbs heat much faster, and thus, far more efficient than coolant with air bubbles. 

The basic difference between a Jeep radiator and a Jeep expansion tank is that the former is always full, while the latter's level of coolant constantly changes – increases and decreases. Replacing Jeep Expansion Tanks can be done fairly simply. Installation involves mounting the expansion tank adjacent the radiator, connecting it to the overflow tube, and replacing the radiator cap. A few aftermarket part manufacturers, such as IK Multimedia and RC2, offer quality replacement Jeep Expansion Tanks. Maintaining the Jeep expansion tank is needed to make sure that the radiator holds up in demanding situations that may  require temperature control.


