Title: 
July, Scheduled Launch of New Jaguar XK In Japan

Word Count:
286

Summary:
The Japanese automobile market should all be on the alert for the new Jaguar vehicle that would soon be careening down their path. You see, the Jaguar Japan has recently announced that the country would be meeting the newly restyled Jaguar XK which is a luxury sports car.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar X Type parts,Jaguar cooling system parts,jaguar parts,Jaguar accessories


Article Body:
The Japanese automobile market should all be on the alert for the new Jaguar vehicle that would soon be careening down their path. You see, the Jaguar Japan has recently announced that the country would be meeting the newly restyled Jaguar XK which is a luxury sports car. The given date of this launch is on the 1st of July. 

According to the announcement by the Japan branch of Jaguar, this luxury sports car would be mainly targeting the male Japanese customers. They would also be moving towards the market who are in their 30s and who receives around 30 million yen as their annual income. 

Indeed, interested consumers would really do need to shell out quite a sum of money since this new Jaguar XK promises loads of features and a ton of power. This vehicle holds a 4.2 liter engine. It also has been crafted and designed with a lightweight aluminum body. Another interesting feature is a new system that assists in absorbing shocks to the human body during collisions. 

There will be two types for the new Jaguar XK in Japan. There will be a coupe with two doors that would be having a price tag of at least 11.3 million yen. As per the other type which is a convertible with two doors, interested parties should at least be have some 12.3 million yen to spare to own this one. 

The Jaguar XK has actually been called and known in a couple of names and the list includes XK8, XKR, as well as simply XK. It has been in production since 1997 and up until present production continues. It replaced the Jaguar XJS in the Jaguar brand’s line up of vehicles. It is a GT car.


