Title: 
Keep Your Vehicle's Carpets Clean!

Word Count:
468

Summary:
Floor mats are an essential accessory for every car. Picking the right set can save you money in the long run; please read on to find out why this is so.


Keywords:
Husky Liner, Weathertech floor mats, auto parts warehouse, car parts, car accessories, aftermarket parts


Article Body:
Your $30,000 car has come equipped with all of the latest bells and whistles: traction control; Sirius satellite radio; side curtain air bags; Onstar; and power everything. Well, there is one thing that is curiously left out of many new car purchases and that is floor mats. You would  think that matching floor mats would be standard equipment on all vehicles, instead it is an aftermarket purchase for most motorists. Selecting the right type of floor mat is essential to preserving your car’s interior. The wrong type of floor mats can look terrible and cost you plenty of money in the end. Please read on to find out why this is so.

Floor mats are the <i>Rodney Dangerfield</i> of automotive accessories. They just don’t get <i>any</i> respect. If they did, your car would come outfitted with a set of high quality, matching mats. Almost a universal oversight, owners routinely pick up their showroom new cars with just a solitary paper mat in place for the driver. Sure, you could run into the dealer’s parts department and pay $200 for a nice set, but you already paid through the nose for your car. Besides, you want a better selection than what your dealer sells, right? I think so!

When selecting automotive floor mats, naturally you will want a complete set: two in the front and two in the back. On some vehicles, including the Chrysler Pacifica, the Chevrolet Suburban, and the all new Mercedes R Class, your set should include six mats for three rows of seating.

The mats you choose should blend in with your vehicle’s interior. Match your mats to the carpeting or at least select neutral colors that won’t make the mats stand out. In addition, the material should consist of heavy duty rubber with deeply sculpted channels for increased durability to avoid cracking and to hold water, mud, salt, and stones in place. Finally, a nonskid bottom is essential to prevent dangerous and untimely movement of the mats.

Some premium floor mats come with carpeting, which can be an attractive option as well as a way for passengers to safely remove outside debris from their footwear.

I hinted earlier about a financial reason as to why quality floor mats are essential for your vehicle. If you lease your car, then you know that you are responsible for any wear and tear that occurs. Investing in a quality set of floor mats can save you unnecessary “wear and use” charges that will be assessed to you if the leasing company decides that your carpeting has worn to the point that it must be replaced. This chargeback can amount to hundreds of dollars, so play it safe and invest in a quality set of floor mats for your vehicle today.


