Title: 
Kia Amanti: Worth Every Cent

Word Count:
475

Summary:
A carryover from 2004, the most recent Kia Amanti is a family sedan made available in one trim level which is the Base. When Kia has designed the Kia Amanti, the automobile manufacturer has certainly made sure that the safety of the driver and the vehicle’s passengers would not looked over and missed out on.


Keywords:
auto parts,Kia car parts,Kia Amati parts,windshield,wheels


Article Body:
A carryover from 2004, the most recent Kia Amanti is a family sedan made available in one trim level which is the Base. It can take up a maximum capacity of five passengers along with an easier entry and exit with its four doors. It can up 17 mpg during city driving and a 25 mpg while on the highway. 

Although the Kia Amanti bears quite a resemblance to a Mercedes, it is quite different overall. This vehicle invokes luxury from its overall appearance. The interior has seat adjustment buttons mounted on its doors so as to help facilitate a Mercedes illusion. This vehicle is the most expensive among Kia’s model line up, however this vehicle is worth every cent for it provides an enormous interior, excellent performance with its quiet yet strong V6 engine, and its comfortable and quiet ride due to the Kia Amanti’s good sound isolation techniques. Something that the Kia Amanti is proud of is its seemingly endless allocation for space. 

When Kia has designed the Kia Amanti, the automobile manufacturer has certainly made sure that the safety of the driver and the vehicle’s passengers would not looked over and missed out on. And for sure, even the previous generations of this vehicle holds safety intact. The Kia Amanti offers more standard airbags than any other car in its class. It also holds airbags that provides the utmost protection during inevitable accidents along with the vehicle’s front active headrests. Each and every Kia Amanti has front and rear crumple zones, side-impact door beams and also has reinforced pillars. Even if it has children for passengers, the little ones are carefully protected by the vehicle’s rear child safety door locks, the internal emergency trunk release, and the specially designed anchorage system that excels in providing an extra secure hold on the child safety seats. 

The Kia Amanti owns up to an excellent performance which is all due to its 3.5 liter DOHC V6 engine. This family sedan has a wheelbase of 110.2 inches, a length of 196 inches, a total width of 72.8 inches, and an overall height of 58.5 inches. The Kia Amanti has features and additional options like a multi-port fuel injection, electronic power steering, a double wishbone front suspension, gas shock absorbers, alloy wheels, clear-lens halogen headlights, side markup lamp, in-glass antenna, dual body color power heated mirrors, a windshield de-icer, a solar glass windshield, one-touch auto up/down power windows, power door locks, a remote keyless entry system along with an alarm with panic button, an AM/FM/cassette/CD audio system, four door mounted tweeter speakers and dual front airbags. 

Auto Parts Online provides Kia Amanti and Kia vehicles owners a complete line of the highest quality Kia car parts, performance parts, like Kia Amanti parts. These Kia auto parts are highly dependable and proven to satisfy manufacturer’s standards.


