Title: 
Kia To Open First U.S. Manufacturing Plant In 2009

Word Count:
424

Summary:
In an announcement made on March 2006, Kia Motors Corporation, the maker of Kia cars, announced official plans to build a $1.2 billion assembly and manufacturing plant in the United States.  The location has been confirmed as West Point, Georgia and will serve as Kia’s first manufacturing plant in America.  The first Kia cars to roll off of the assembly line are said to begin production in 2009.


Keywords:
Kia, car, cars, vehicles, SUV, SUVs, auto, automotive, news, new cars


Article Body:
In an announcement made on March 2006, Kia Motors Corporation, the maker of Kia cars, announced official plans to build a $1.2 billion assembly and manufacturing plant in the United States.  The location has been confirmed as West Point, Georgia and will serve as Kia’s first manufacturing plant in America.  The first Kia cars to roll off of the assembly line are said to begin production in 2009.

When operated at it’s maximum capacity, the new Kia cars facility is expected to create approximately 300,000 brand new automobiles every year.  In addition, this new construction will provide an additional 2,500 jobs and will be situated on 2,200 acres.  

According to president and CEO of Kia Motors America J.H. Lee, "The decision by Kia Motors Corporation to build a manufacturing plant in the United States demonstrates their confidence in our ability to further grow sales in the North American market.”  He added, "The plant is an important development to support our sales goals over the next decade."

A dedicated Kia cars corporate campus is currently under construction in Irvine, California.  With an anticipated opening date of December 2006, this new facility will feature a 65,000 square-foot design center.  Over the past four years, Kia Motors has invested over $300 million in America.  Among the results are a state-of-the-art research and development center located in Michigan, along with a custom-built vehicle facility in California.

Since debuting in the American market, Kia cars has expanded to a complete product line of vehicles and have watched their company thrive during the 12 years of consecutive sales records, which continue to this day.

Kia Motors Corporation, the maker of Kia cars, is headquartered in South Korea.  However, through the development of Kia Motors America, Kia is able to offer a complete line of automobiles, including Kia cars, through well over 600 United States car dealerships.  Said to be one of the fastest growing automakers in the world, Kia was founded in 1944 making it Korea’s oldest manufacturer of motor vehicles.  Through the company’s latest release featuring hybrid technology, Kia hopes to become one of the world’s premier automotive brands.  With assembly and manufacturing operations in seven countries, Kia produces over 1.1 million vehicles each year, which are then sold through a network of dealers and distributors throughout 160 countries.  With more than 32,000 employees and annual revenues topping $15 billion, Kia has found sponsorship to be an important part of it’s success.  As a major sponsor to both the Australian Tennis Open and FIFA, the Kia Motors Corporation is planning even more changes in the years to come.


