Title: 
Kia Rio, Tops J.D. Power And Associates’ Subcompact Category

Word Count:
283

Summary:
As part of the J.D. Power Associates’ 2006 Initial Quality Study SM, the 2006 Kia Rio which is also known as the Kia Rio 5 has topped the subcompact category for initial quality. The Kia Rio in the subcompact segment of the study took in 137 problems per 100 vehicles and this has brought the vehicle to the top of the list in its segment.


Keywords:
auto parts,Kia,Kia parts,Kia Rio parts,Kia headlamps,Kia accessories


Article Body:
As part of the J.D. Power Associates’ 2006 Initial Quality Study SM, or commonly known as the IQS, the 2006 Kia Rio which is also known as the Kia Rio 5 has topped the subcompact category for initial quality. The IQS is actually an annual study that the organization does. This study actually focuses on measuring vehicle attributes that amount to 217. This is done by comparing such attributes across eight vehicle categories. The lists of such categories even include driving experience, engine system, transmission system, as well as quality problem symptoms that are commonly reported by vehicle owners. 

The Kia Rio in the subcompact segment of the study took in 137 problems per 100 vehicles and this has brought the vehicle to the top of the list in its segment. Aside from the Kia Rio, the 2006 Kia Sedona which is a minivan also took one of the highest ranks in its segment. What makes this quite remarkable is that the Kia Sedona is just in its first year of production and of being in the market. Another Kia vehicle that took a good spot was the Kia Sportage in the compact SUV department. 

The Kia Rio owning up to such a prestigious spot in a very well planned vehicle study is a great reward for Kia Motors America, the company that produces and is responsible for everything related to what the Kia Rio is. Len Hunt, the company’s executive vice president, even states, “Rio is a class leading subcompact vehicle and an excellent example of Kia’s continued dedication to offering consumers an affordable vehicle without sacrificing quality. We are extremely pleased that the automotive industry and consumers alike recognize Rio’s high level of excellence.”


