Title: 
Land Rover LR2, Back On The Streets

Word Count:
337

Summary:
Just very recently, the Land Rover brand of the Ford Motor Company has revealed to the motoring public and to the rest of the globe that they would soon be sending out the new Land Rover LR2 back on the streets. And yes, this new vehicle would be entering the compact premium sport utility vehicle (SUV) market.


Keywords:
auto parts,Land Rover,Land Rover parts,Land Rover LR2,Land Rover accessories


Article Body:
Just very recently, the Land Rover brand of the Ford Motor Company has revealed to the motoring public and to the rest of the globe that they would soon be sending out the new Land Rover LR2 back on the streets. And yes, this new vehicle would be entering the compact premium sport utility vehicle (SUV) market. Land Rover believes that the LR2 is very much capable of topping that segment with the features and power that it has in store. 

The Land Rover LR2 is also known as the Land Rover Freelander. This compact crossover vehicle was first produced back in 1998. And now, it would soon be back roaming and cruising down our streets and roads. In the market, the Land Rover LR2 considers the Jeep Liberty, Jeep Cherokee, Toyota RAV4, BMW X3, and the Honda CRV as its competition. In four years, the new model of the Land Rover LR2 is actually the fourth new model in its line. It would soon be joining its relatives that include the Range Rover, the Land Rover LR3, and the Range Rover Sport. 

Phil Popham is the managing director for the Land Rover brand, and he was caught commenting on this new Land Rover LR2: “LR2 combines the advantages of a premium sedan – such as polished ride, accomplished performance, an attractive cabin and ease of use – with the attributes of a robust SUV, including go-anywhere ability, toughness, stadium seating, cabin versatility, and spaciousness.” He even adds that in behalf of the company, he could actually say that the new Land Rover LR2 is what most people would call having the best of both worlds.  

A pack of features and other technologies, the new Land Rover LR2 would become a favorite among car lovers. Despite the fact that it did not do well in the US market, the brand is still venturing on marketing this vehicle in the mentioned area. It would also be sending out the Land Rover LR2 to Europe where it has been doing really well.


