Title: 
Leading Window Graphics Company & Renowned Artist Headline Automobile News

Word Count:
480

Summary:
When you think of automobile news, you may not expect to read about a renowned artist.  However, a recent automobile news release contained just that.  An artist, his talent and an innovative company looking to change the way you look at windshields is the current focus of much media attention and automobile news.


Keywords:
auto,automotive,car,cars,news


Article Body:
When you think of automobile news, you may not expect to read about a renowned artist.  However, a recent automobile news release contained just that.  An artist, his talent and an innovative company looking to change the way you look at windshields is the current focus of much media attention and automobile news.

In an automotive news announcement made, Window Canvas, the leader in Exterior Applied See-Thru Window Graphics for cars, trucks and SUVs, confirmed an agreement with well-known artist Jeff Wilkie.  The exclusive contract was signed with Persistence of Vision, which gave Window Canvas the license to represent the art of Jeff Wilkie on their vehicle graphics.

If you have ever noticed a rear windshield with an impressive, and colorful, image covering the entire back glass, then you are already familiar with the concept of transparent window graphics.  They prevent viewing the interior from the rear, but allow the passengers and driver to see out.  Window graphics are often quite detailed and beautiful, which is the concept behind Windows Canvas and their new artwork license with Jeff Wilkie.

"Jeff's breathtaking artwork is the perfect addition to Window Canvas and our image library," commented Bianca J. Hennings, Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Window Canvas.  According to the recent automobile news release, Hennings concluded, "We are very excited about his imagery being displayed on people's cars all over the country and even the world."

Jeff Wilkie is an accomplished artist whose collections include both ocean and marine life images.  Among the many depictions, Wilkie portrays an artistic image of dolphins, seascapes, whales and other wildlife.  "I am very happy to have my artwork added to their line of products," Jeff admits.  His work has been licensed for a variety of products, including greeting cards, puzzles, t-shirts and computer mouse pads.  To add even more credence to Wilkie's art, his images have been offered as part of the fine art prize category on "The Price Is Right" televised game show.  The products featuring Wilkie's art are constantly ranked number one in sales.  Beginning in the spring of 2006, his art will also be featured on checks, checkbook covers, address labels and wall murals throughout the United States.  

Window Canvas is the recognized leader in exterior applied see-thru window graphics for automobiles.  Their website features more than 2,000 images, including patriotic, flags, sports, personal expressions, nature, military and camouflage scenes.  In addition to their many options, Window Canvas also offers website visitors with an opportunity to customize their own rear window graphics using a patent pending technology feature called "Create Your Own."

An artist who loves to create images and a company who loves to incorporate them into windows have come together to generate widespread automobile news attention.  Websites and various industry publications are sure to be among the first to report automobile news and especially when it's as beautiful as Wilkie's artwork.


