Title: 
Learning About Your Land Rover Brakes

Word Count:
412

Summary:
Without brakes, a vehicle would surely be hurtling itself and its passengers to danger. Friction causes the life of these brakes to shorten. Try to look at your brakes. You and your vehicle still need the assistance of brake fluid. If your brake system does not have enough brake fluid, using the brakes may not even work at all.


Keywords:
auto parts,Land Rover parts,Land Rover accessories,brakes,clutch parts


Article Body:
Without brakes, a vehicle would surely be hurtling itself and its passengers to danger. And yes, crashes, collisions, and accidents would constantly be happening. What a brake does is it slows down or completely stops the movement or motion of a vehicle. It also keeps the vehicle from going any further if there are other forces that make it move. This is accomplished because the brake pads on the brakes provide friction which makes the vehicle actually slow down or stop. 

That is the very reason as per why vehicles, like Land Rover vehicles, need to replace and change their brakes every now and then. Friction causes the life of these brakes to shorten. Each time it is used wears it down a little bit and it also gets used up which is the reason why brakes are oftentimes replaced many times over throughout the lifetime of a vehicle. 

So when do you need to replace the brakes, or brake pads of your vehicle? Try to look at your brakes. You would notice that there are actually built in wear indicators which have been specially crafted so as to assist you in knowing when you need to change your brakes. These indicators actually have been crafted so as to be able to make noise to alert and let you know that they need replacing. Did you ever notice any squealing noises? That is the brake indicator. 

But do not just completely rely your brakes. After all, these brakes and the brake pads are just a part of the whole brake system of your vehicle. You and your vehicle still need the assistance of brake fluid. If your brake system does not have enough brake fluid, using the brakes may not even work at all. So always remember to check if your vehicle has the right amount of brake fluid in its reservoir to ensure that the next time you brake, your car would slow down or stop. 

What does the brake fluid do? Well, it is what actually acts and gives the signal to the calipers in the brake system to push the brakes so much so that your vehicle’s motion would stop. Checking the amount and level of the brake fluid is something that you can actually do yourself. By just gently moving the reservoir of your brake fluid, you can see if the amount of the brake fluid is just somewhere in between the minimum and the maximum marks.


