Title: 
Lexus LS-460: Loaded With High Technology Gadgets

Word Count:
320

Summary:
This year would be the time when the automobile world and the rest of the market would come to know the 2007 Lexus LS-460. Now this new one would hold more technology features compared to all the other vehicles that are offered at present.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lexus,Lexus parts,Lexus accessories


Article Body:
This year would be the time when the automobile world and the rest of the market would come to know the 2007 Lexus LS-460. This vehicle would soon be rolling out of its manufacturing and assembly plants and would be later on shipped to the auto market of North America for sale. Now this new one would hold more technology features compared to all the other vehicles that are offered at present. This is according to the Telematics Research Group (TRG). 

One of the major features that the 2007 Lexus LS-460 has to offer is the factory-installed 30GB hard drive disk that could be used not only for music but for navigation as well. Although the 2007 Lexus LS-460 is not the only one to offer a hard disk with a great amount of space, it is important to note that the Mercedes Benz S-Class (the other vehicle that offers such a feature) is only able to use such a feature for navigation purposes. 

Aside from the 30GB hard drive, the 2007 Lexus LS-460 also has cameras. These cameras are actually installed for the purposes of lane departure warning as well as park assist. This vehicle holds three cameras and these would lend out an eye during parking. These would also help out in warning the driver when the 2007 Lexus LS-460 veers out of the lane. 

Other features that this high-technology packed vehicle has include a touch-screen and voice activated navigation system, a Bluetooth phone control, monitored telematics, live traffic reports, as well as a 19-inch speaker audio system that is able to read compressed audio formats like MP3. 

According to Phil Magney, the president and principal analyst of TRG, claims, “The 2007 Lexus LS-460 includes more technology that any other passenger vehicle offered for sale in the US. Based on our criteria of 30 technology features in the areas of telematics, infotainment, and driver assist technologies, the 2007 Lexus LS-460 scores the highest of all vehicles.”


