Title: 
Lexus LS 2006: Spanning Horizons

Word Count:
510

Summary:
The Lexus LS 2006 boasts of several features. The Smart Access is actually an option for the vehicle. This vehicle has always held a striking presence. It bears a sculpted form as well as refined features that make heads turn. It also has an aggressively styled front end features.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lexus parts,Lexus accessories,Lexus LS 2006,mirrors,headlamps,


Article Body:
The Toyota Motor Corporation is responsible for the Lexus brand. After all, Lexus is a Japanese brand name that is used by this automobile manufacturer when exporting their products to some places like in North America, the Middle East, Europe, Africa, Latin America, Asia, and Oceania. Also, this brand is the manufacturer’s line for its family of luxury automobiles and vehicles.

One of the Lexus vehicles is the Lexus LS 2006. This vehicle has always held a striking presence. It bears a sculpted form as well as refined features that make heads turn. It also has an aggressively styled front end features. To emphasize its bold look, the streamlined headlamps and front grille gives the vehicle that such appeal. It is sporty and it has a wide stance. 

This vehicle has been crafted with a many choices made available both for the exterior and the interior. For the exterior, the choices include Blue Onyx Pearl, Black Cherry Pearl, Cypress Pearl, Briarwood Pearl, Mystic Gold Metallic, Moonlight Pearl, Crystal White, Mercury Metallic, Flint Mica, and Black Onyx. As per the interior colors, customers could actually choose from Cashmere Leather Trim with Golden Bird’s Eye Maple Accent, Ash Leather Trim with Walnut Accent, Black Leather Trim with Walnut Accent, Ecru Perforated Leather Trim with Golden Bird’s Eye Maple Accent, Saddle Perforated Leather Trim with Antique Walnut Accent, or Black Perforated Leather Trim with Antique Walnut Accent.

The Lexus LS 2006 boasts of several features. The Smart Access is actually an option for the vehicle. However, this system actually enables owners to lock and unlock their doors, open the trunk, and also turn on the ignition switch without having to take out the keys to the vehicle out of their pockets or purses. This system actually works just by it sensing the Smart Access key. Also, the Lexus LS 2006’s alloy wheels allot a huge effort of adding to the appeal and beauty of this vehicle. Backed up with the right kind of tires, this vehicle has been rolling its way to success. 

Other features of this vehicle include adaptive front lightining, High Intensity Discharge (HID) headlamps with a blue hue, an intuitive parking assist, a laser cruise control system, a power moonroof, auto dimming mirrors, rain sensing wipers, the Mark Levinson audio system, the voice activated navigation system, a backup camera, the Bluetooth technology, a dual climate control system, a rear seat climate control system, rear seat luxuries, a power rear sunshade, the satellite radio, and the HomeLink remote control system. 

The new Lexus LS 2006’s total package of features, space, and style puts it at the head of its class. Its performance could also be maintained and taken cared of, that is if the owner uses superior Lexus parts from Auto Parts Discount. Its extensive array of maximum quality Lexus parts and accessories await customers at great wholesale deals. In case you have any difficulties in choosing the right kind of Lexus parts for your vehicle, Auto Parts Discount has friendly customer service staffs that are ready to serve you.


