Title: 
Lincoln Mark IV: Not Just Another

Word Count:
407

Summary:
From the Ford Motor Company’s luxury division, the Lincoln brand has introduced to the world the Lincoln Mark IV. By taking a look at the style and design that the Lincoln Mark IV has, one could be able to see that most of the motifs and angles are just like the Lincoln Mark III.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lincoln mark IV,Lincoln,ac condenser,engine,parts,mirror,radiator


Article Body:
From the Ford Motor Company’s luxury division, the Lincoln brand has introduced to the world the Lincoln Mark IV. In the United States and the rest of North America, this vehicle was actually sold and marketed from 1972 up until 1976. It replaced the Mark III although it was already successful that time. Later on, the Mark V replaced this vehicle. For most parts and most of the specifications, the Lincoln Mark IV and the Ford Thunderbird were very much alike. Even the platform was shared by the two vehicles. 

By taking a look at the style and design that the Lincoln Mark IV has, one could be able to see that most of the motifs and angles are just like the Lincoln Mark III. These include the tall Rolls Royce style grille, the fashionable long hood short deck style, the covered headlamps, the “spare tire hump” found in the trunk, and the taller and knife-edged fender line. As per the grille, the Lincoln Mark IV’s version is much taller. And to allow this kind of adjustment, the close fitting bumpers were dipped. The “spare tire hump” was more rounded and from thereon, the lines led further down the vehicle. As per measurements, though, the Lincoln Mark IV came out to be longer and wider. The angles were slightly softened out and made more rounded. The wheel openings were made to be symmetrical front to rear like in the Oldsmobile Tornado inspired style that was popular that time. The Lincoln Mark IV also held a vinyl roof. 

The power of this machine and vehicle comes from a 460 cubic inch or 7.2 liter Ford 385 series V8 engine. On its introduction, it has been that this vehicle could prove to produce and create some 212 units of horsepower or 158 kW. To assist this engine, the Lincoln Mark IV also came with a C6 3 speed automatic transmission system. 

In 1976, Lincoln took a gamble and made the Designer Series. When it was introduced that year, the Lincoln Mark IVs under this series were actually holding colors, trims, and interior choices designed by fashion designers. Each of the designer signed at the opera window, plus a name engraved on the gold plated plaque on the instrument panels. There were four designers that time that took their time to show off their craft using Lincoln Mark IV. The series comprised of the Bill Blass Edition, the Cartier Edition, the Givenchy Edition, and the Pucci Edition.


