Title: 
Lincoln MKX, Ford Edge: To Be Offered At Low Prices

Word Count:
329

Summary:
The new crossovers to be offered with low prices are the 2007 Ford Edge and the 2007 Lincoln MKX. And both of these vehicles would be surely available come November this year.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar parts,XJS Jaguar parts,Jaguar accessories


Article Body:
The Ford Motor Company has now come up with a new plan so as to bring up their declining sales. With the 2007 crossovers hot and very attractive in the auto market, the company is making sure that when they do send out these new crossovers to dealers and showrooms, they would be coming with tag prices that would surely have retail customers coming in to purchase one for themselves. 

Now, according to Cisco Codina, who is the group vice president of the company for marketing, sales, and service in the North America area, “Our intent is to have good leases and good pricing. We do not plan to have any visible cash on those vehicles.” 

And what vehicles are these, you may ask? The new crossovers to be offered with low prices are the 2007 Ford Edge and the 2007 Lincoln MKX. And both of these vehicles would be surely available come November this year. However, the company still yet has to give out what the prices on these new and blazing vehicles would be. Rumors have it, though, that they would be very flexible and owners would surely have a grand time changing its parts with other Ford parts like Ford Festiva car parts to personalize the vehicles. As for the prices, seniors in the automobile world have computed that the Ford Edge would be carrying a price that would fall around the $20,000 range. As per the Lincoln MKX, it would be having a tag some $10,000 higher than the Edge. 

The Ford Edge is a midsize crossover sport utility vehicle and is offered as a wagon with four doors. The FF/AWD CD3 platform has been used as the base for this vehicle and its power comes from a 3.5 liter Duratec 35 V6 engine. 

A midsize luxury crossover sport utility vehicle would be the best description for the Lincoln MKX. It is a crossover vehicle with four doors and is midsized. Its engine is also the same as the Ford Edge.


