Title: 
Lincoln’s Version of Luxury

Word Count:
499

Summary:
The Lincoln Continental is a vehicle that is crafted and manufactured by the Lincoln brand of the Ford Motor Company in the United States.  The last of the Lincoln Continental kind was manufactured in 2002 and was replaced by the Lincoln Zephyr.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lincoln Continental parts


Article Body:
The Lincoln Continental is a vehicle that is crafted and manufactured by the Lincoln brand of the Ford Motor Company in the United States. This is a line of luxury cars, and for most of its lifetime, the name, Lincoln Continental, has often been used in reference to the Lincoln flagship that displayed four doors. This vehicle was initially developed as Edsel Ford’s personal vehicle. This vehicle has often been rated as one of the most beautiful vehicles ever crafted the world over. 

This vehicle has been substantially updated in the middle of the 1990s decade. It received more rounded lines thus exuding a more aerodynamic exterior. For 1995, it reigned and received a reputation as a unique Lincoln vehicle and was recognized as a luxury car. Its V6 engine was replaced through the addition and use of the same DOHC Modular V8 that was installed at the rear of this vehicle. Constant updates were made and in 1998, it displayed a new exterior. After a year, side airbags were put in place and the vehicle gained more power. The last of the Lincoln Continental kind was manufactured in 2002 and was replaced by the Lincoln Zephyr. 

For the last set of changes, the Lincoln Continental delivers comfort with its fullness that is packed with technology, and computer electronics that are applied to it. This has allowed drivers to tailor suspension dampening and steering effort so as to suit their own personal taste and style in driving. It costs lesser than the Cadillac and the Lexus luxury sedans and could consider the Buick Park Avenue as its competitor. For the last year that it was crafted, it came with the standard features like leather upholstery, self-leveling rear suspension, anti-lock brakes, traction control, side impact air bags, dual front air bags, and a memory system for the driver’s seat and mirrors. It held a 4.6 liter V8 engine that powers the front wheels with a four-speed automatic transmission. What was given as an option is a Vehicle Communication package that includes a hands-free voice-activated, digital/analog Motorola Timeport phone, however this requires a Sprint PCS plan. It has voice-activated news, weather, sports, and stock quotes. With the Safety and Security Services, or SOS, button, it can summon emergency roadside assistance and it also activates automatically if the air bags are deployed. 

The Lincoln Continental sports the Lincoln waterfall grille that blends neatly with the headlamp clusters. It also has a brightly trimmed front end with massive tail lamps that seem to wrap around the muscular rear quarters. The front fenders, hood, and deck lid has been specifically made with a sheet-molding compound that is very resistant to dents and damages. Overall, it exudes a round, organic, yet solid and impressive impression. 

Lincoln Continental owners and Lincoln owners need not worry about their Lincoln Continental parts and auto parts like engine parts, hoods, mirrors, and wheels, for these have been made available on the internet with Lincoln Parts and Car Parts’ online store.


