Title: 
Lincoln Gets Into a Squabble Because Of the MKX

Word Count:
320

Summary:
The Lincoln MKX is actually pronounced as “Mark X”. It is a crossover sport utility vehicle. Expectations for this vehicle include this vehicle as a replacement for the Lincoln Aviator comes the following year.


Keywords:
auto parts Lincoln MKX,Lincoln parts,Lincoln accessories,Lincoln Versailles parts


Article Body:
The Ford Motor Company’s Lincoln division of luxury vehicles recently got into a squabble with the Honda Motor Company. This was during the Detroit auto show back in January this year when the squabble started. Several employees from the Acura division of Honda were checking out a sport utility vehicle which was a fairly new vehicle from the Lincoln brand. However, they noticed that the name of this new vehicle, Lincoln MKX, was very much similar to the Acura SUV named Acura MDX. 

After the said show was over, the Acura division then sent off a letter to the Lincoln division’s mother company, the Ford Motor Company. The letter demanded that the luxury line drop the name, MKX. However, the Ford Motor Company refused to do such a thing. This led to Acura filing a lawsuit. The accusation was that Ford was guilty of trademark infringement. The lawsuit is currently still in the process of being decided over. However, the thing is that behind all this big issue is the simple squabble over a combination of letters. 

The Lincoln MKX is actually pronounced as “Mark X”. It is a crossover sport utility vehicle. Expectations for this vehicle include this vehicle as a replacement for the Lincoln Aviator comes the following year. This new sport utility vehicle would be built along with the Ford Edge in the company’s assembly plant in Ontario, Canada. Sources have it that the 2007 Lincoln MKX would be bearing a price tag that ranges from $34,495 to $44,885. 

Main competitors for this crossover vehicle would include the Cadillac SRX, the Acura MDX, the Lexus RX, and the BMW X5. Also, this vehicle has been built on the CD3 platform which is also the one used by the Ford Edge and the Lincoln Zephyr/MKZ. It will hold the Ford 3.5 liter Duratec 35 V6 engine which has the capacity to produce 250 units of horsepower and 240 units of pound-feet.


