Title: 
Lincoln Continental: Overflowing With Luxury

Word Count:
555

Summary:
Lincoln Continental was first developed and designed to be Edsel Ford’s own personal vehicle. Perhaps due to its success, definite structure, and superb performance, the company has then decided to market it and sell it to the automobile world.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lincoln Continental parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Lincoln has the choice of many people for this brand holds a line of luxury vehicles. Come 1924, the brand has become the top choice in cars of the extremely rich and the very famous that includes inventor and businessman Thomas Edison as well as administrator, humanitarian, engineer, and 31st President of the United States Herbert Hoover. At present, this vehicle brand continues to design, create and craft more vehicles that do not sacrifice its American luxury vehicle heritage as well as enigmatic characteristics of elegance, cleanliness, power, high technology and well thought of designs. 

The Lincoln Continental used to be Lincoln’s flagship that sports four doors. However, its reign ended when the Lincoln Town Car came into being in the year 1981. The Lincoln brand, which is the Ford Motor Company’s line of luxury cars and vehicles, has been creating the Lincoln Continental for years up until the last year of its production in 2002. Through the years, it has made its distinguishing mark as the premier American luxury car. This vehicle got its name from its body style and design which held an open chauffeur’s compartment and the enclosed passenger compartment. 

A midsize model that primarily competes with the Cadillac Seville and the Cadillac Deville, the Lincoln Continental was first developed and designed to be Edsel Ford’s own personal vehicle. Perhaps due to its success, definite structure, and superb performance, the company has then decided to market it and sell it to the automobile world. It was in 1938 when Ford then commissioned chief stylist Bob Gregorie to produce and provide him a custom design. What came out was this elegant convertible with a long hood that covers up the Lincoln V12 engine. It also held long front fenders, and a short trunk, as well as the covered spare tire which was mounted on the outside. The latter soon became the Lincoln Continental’s trademark. In 1961, the Lincoln Continental became the very first automobile to receive the title as Design of the Year. This award is given and awarded by the very prestigious Industrial Designers Institute. 

The Lincoln Continental has been totally planned for it took months of research, design, and development for it to be created. It holds unique proportions that totally enhance and optimize space and roominess. It also shows off elegance, sophistication, and supreme comfort in its interior and cabin. This luxury vehicle from Lincoln features center opening doors. It relies and focuses on simplicity and total refinement. The powered center-opening doors are actually triggered by a remote or also through a simply touch of the flush aluminum door handles. This type of technology requires less power than the conventional type. The case holders built into the cabin’s front seat backs have the capability to fold down so as to allow an attaché to be opened without removing it from the sleeve. 

Lincoln Continental and Lincoln vehicle owners can take a peek at Lincoln Parts and Car Parts’ extensive stock of dependable and long-lasting Lincoln Continental parts. By doing such, they hold in their hands the capacity and ability to maintain their Lincoln vehicle’s total luxury and comfort. It also is the start of great savings while preserving at the same time the performance of the Lincoln that exudes luxury as well as performance.
</p>


