Title: 
Lincoln’s ‘American Dream’ And Four New Vehicles

Word Count:
379

Summary:
The Lincoln brand has certainly made sure that they would be having their own campaign and theirs would be called the ‘American Dream’. Lincoln claims that it would be targeted towards people to pursue and live the American Dream.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lincoln,Lincoln parts,Mark IV parts,Lincoln accessories


Article Body:
Remember the Ford Motor Company’s campaign on people creating and doing ‘Bold Moves’? Well, the Lincoln brand has certainly made sure that they would be having their own campaign. And theirs would be called the ‘American Dream’. Lincoln claims that it would be targeted towards people to pursue and live the American Dream. In fact, this new marketing and advertising campaign has been built on the success of the sales of the Lincoln Mark LT as well as the Lincoln Zephyr. As part of this campaign, the brand would also be showing off and presenting to the public four new vehicles. 

To further explain this new strategy of bringing and drawing in customers, Al Giombetti, who is the president of the marketing and sales departments of Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury, states, “The ‘Dreams’ marketing platform is about the vision that motivates successful people and the rewards for achieving success. It is an idea that fits perfectly with our brand because we are turning Lincoln into a new American success story on the strength of innovative products. In fact, eighty percent of our showroom is all-new for 2007.”

Sales have certainly gone up for the brand by about eight per cent and they are giving full credit to the 2006 Lincoln Zephyr as well as the Lincoln Mark LT for such an increase in profit. The Lincoln Zephyr is the new midsize sedan which has just been launched last fall. As per the Lincoln Mark LT, it is the brand’s full size luxury pickup truck. Both vehicles have been well acclaimed and have been the target for praise and accolades. Just recently both had been awarded with high marks during the J.D. Power and Associates Initial Quality Study. Aside from this, the Lincoln Zephyr took home the Ward’s Auto World “Best Interior Award” for the segment it was in. 

Mike Richards, the general marketing manager for Lincoln and Mercury, comments, “Lincoln will build on the success of the 2006 Zephyr and Mark LT with four terrific vehicles that are designed to inspire and reward those who believe in and pursue the American Dream. Each of these vehicles – the new Lincoln MKX, MKZ, Navigator, and Navigator L – will deliver a business class driving experience that will celebrate our customers’ success.”


