Title: 
Looking Forward for the Dodge Caliber

Word Count:
319

Summary:
The Dodge Caliber would eventually be replacing the Dodge Neon come the time it hits the streets. More or less, the size of this vehicle would be just like the Dodge Neon’s. This vehicle is a compact car and it would be coming with a hatchback body style.


Keywords:
auto parts,auto accessories,Dodge Caliber,Dodge parts,Dodge accessories,Dodge Neon accessories,Dodge Aries accessories,Dodge Viper accessories


Article Body:
Starting next year, 2007, Daimler Chrysler would be sending off on the streets and roads the new Dodge Caliber. This vehicle is a compact car and it would be coming with a hatchback body style. Aside from that, it would hold five doors. This vehicle has been built on the Mitsubishi/Daimler Chrysler GS platform, and for this very reason, it has been said that this vehicle is very much related to the Jeep Compass and the Jeep Patriot. When it starts to hit the streets, the Dodge Neon would be mainly competing against the Chevrolet HHR, the Ford Focus, the Toyota Matrix, the Mazda Mazda3, and the Pontiac Vibe. 

The Dodge Caliber would eventually be replacing the Dodge Neon come the time it hits the streets. More or less, the size of this vehicle would be just like the Dodge Neon’s. The 2005 Geneva Motor Show became the avenue for Dodge to introduce this compact vehicle to the automobile market. The Dodge Caliber holds a crosshair grille as well as large wheel arches that are very much the common features of Daimler Chrysler vehicles. If you are interested in purchasing one, then you should be willing to pay up some $13,985 for this. 

George Murphy, the company’s senior vice president for global marketing, states, “Dodge Caliber is not your typical small car. The all new Dodge Caliber redefines the compact car by combining crossover styling with space efficient packaging, interior flexibility, innovative features, and affordable performance. Caliber allows owners around the globe to be active, do more and stand out – to live life to the fullest, and do so at a very competitive price.”

Matt Liddane, the chief engineer for the Dodge Caliber, adds, “Dodge Caliber’s spacious interior is also very versatile. We combined styled and comfort with innovative features and clever packaging to create a vehicle that gives new meaning to functionality in the compact car market.”


