Title: 
Luxury Car Rental Web Sites

Word Count:
907

Summary:
This article tells the reader where they can find their favorite luxury car rental online for their area.


Keywords:
exotic car, exotic car rental, luxury car, luxury car rental


Article Body:
Car Rentals: Why just rent a car when you can drive one of the most sought after automobiles in the world? Being away from home doesn't mean your image is on hiatus too. We found a few luxury car rental sources around the nation that merit a look-see. Renting is an ideal way to either maintain a personal standard of excellence or to try out a new vehicular experience for an "extended" test drive. 

With more and more facets of the luxury lifestyle being rented, chartered, or owned fractionally, we were driven to review some Web sites. The critique we offer is on the companies' Web sites only. There are no lemons on our list. 

As more and more luxury consumers use the Internet to do research before making buying decisions, we offer our comments in an attempt to make the worldwide Web a better place for all users. 

Midway Car Rental has luxury sedans, exotic sports cars, limos, and SUVs from which to choose. Lamborghini, Ferrari, Porsche, Mercedes-Benz, Jaguar, Lexus, Hummer, BMW, and Range Rovers are represented plentifully. There are several locations throughout Southern California. The organization has been in the business since 1970. With more than 1,500 vehicles, it is the largest privately owned vehicle rental company in Los Angeles. Midway Car Rental is a true pioneer of the luxury-auto rental industry. 

The Web site of Midway Car Rental provides a lot of information about the company and its services. The outfit has just about everything a customer needs online laid out in easy-to-follow categories. Our only criticism is that the company's Web site leaves one-third of the viewing area blank. Midway has a three-column-page setup and only uses two-thirds of it. The right side of all pages on the site is a just a blue column- which leaves us a tad blue. Use that space wisely, guys!

Players Car Rental has nine locations with hookups in Florida, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, and New York. The crème de la crème in sports cars, sedans, convertibles, and SUVs is available at all locations. The company, which began in 2000, continues to flourish by providing a fanciful fleet of luxury automobiles and exemplary service to upscale consumers around the world. 

The Web site features three musical tracks and an easy-to-find mute button. Without commenting positively or negatively about the presence of music, it is good to have choices. Navigation is smooth and contact info is complete. The real timesaving feature of this Web site is a hidden gem that some may overlook. By clicking on the various car models, such as Aston Martin, Porsche, or Rolls Royce, in the left column of any section of the site, a visitor is taking to page that provides complete details on the vehicle in one place. The car's rate, specifications, and comparable vehicles available are displayed. 

Specialty Rentals has all the requisite hot-button luxury automobiles available and even more. The Northern California-based company has a wide range of vehicles. Aside from luxury staples, the company has niche selections, such as the Smart Car and the Mini Cooper, that may be viewed as more utilitarian than luxurious. Specialty offers VIP service and gift cards at its nine California locations. Nationwide rental services are provided. Most luxury models can be returned to different cities. 

The fledgling firm is "a division of a licensee of one of the world's leading car rental companies." It is found in the FAQ section of the Web site. Why the mysterious world leader opts not to be identified is likely just a marketing issue. It is probably something like Ugly Duckling Exotic Luxury Rentals just doesn't hit the ear optimally. Everything is easily accessible. Navigation is smooth; the sections are clearly defined. 

Excellence Luxury Car Rental has locations in Miami, Paris, and Cannes. All three locations feature exotic sports cars, coupes, sedans, and SUVS. The fleet of dreamy cars includes the Bentley Azure convertible, the Ferrari F355 Spider, the Rolls Royce Seraph, and the Lamborghini Diablo. The company also sells cars.

Here is an example of a good company with upscale services and a so-so Web presence. When the homepage of a Web site greets incoming visitors with a message on what is necessary- from their personal computer- to just view the Web site, it is a bad plan that is going to prompt a fair share of prospective patrons to look elsewhere. It is difficult enough to get people to check out a well-designed Web site. Luxury consumers want to ease of use, info and pictures. Two out of three ain't bad - but there is room for improvement. 

When several companies that provide the same type of service are presented, it is somewhat difficult describing what is offered without sounding repetitive. So, rest assured that Chicago Exotic Car Rentals has a fleet of exotic, super-luxury vehicles that is on par with the luxury car-rental sources. However, the Drive 5 in One Day is a deal sweet enough to book flight to the Second City today. Privileged customers can spend 30 minutes driving each car- from station to station- through Chicago. The tour lasts three to four hours. The price of this extravaganza is $895. A non-driving guest may tag along for free.

Chicago Exotic Car Rentals' Web site features detailed write-ups on its vehicles. Navigating through the pages of the Web site is smooth. Additionally, the company information and the FAQs do a good job covering the all the bases.


