Title: 
Luxury and Sports in one package R35/G35 Nissan Skyline

Word Count:
474

Summary:
The radical R35 Nissan skyline is completely different to previous models you get the felling that it was Nissans intention to tackle the likes of BMW and Mercedes. Let start with the new shape a very modern design with smooth curves and lines which make it look very European /American.


Keywords:
Nissan Skyline, nissan skyline GTR, automotive


Article Body:
The radical R35 Nissan skyline is completely different to previous models you get the felling that it was Nissans intention to tackle the likes of BMW and Mercedes. Let start with the new shape a very modern design with smooth curves and lines which make it look very European /American. 

The front of the car features a huge grill (which is a bit big for my liking) and sexy vertical style headlights. Moving to the side view the car looks very bulky with huge doors and smooth enlarged guards which look a lot less deliberate than that of a GTR. From the rear to the car looks great with twin exhaust tips and LED brake lights, but much to my disappointment the stove top tail-lights are gone.

The interior of the car looks great and again has a European feel about it. This Skyline has much more leg room than previous models but due to the sloping room there is little heat room in the back for tall passengers. Airbags are standard of course, along with a 6 stack cd player, and climate control. All controls are at arms reach and are very easy to use.

This Nissan skyline shares the same layout and engine as the 350Z but has a more luxurious style about it. The wheel base is slightly longer and the ride is more comfortable because of this the 350z is probably a slightly better performer. A 3.5L V6 replaces the aging RB engine and let me tell you it's a beauty, with 206kw @ 6000rpm and Nm at 4'800rpm. This engine performs and sounds fantastic the RB engine was good but you just can't beat the throttle response of an NA.

The new platform ignores the notion that 50:50 front-to-rear weight distribution is the key to balanced handling. Nissan has employed a distribution of 53:47 this takes into account the pre-load which occurs when steering into a corner and counterbalances as weight shifts to the rear under acceleration, the result is a more stable feeling car. Vehicle Dynamic Control (VDC) replaces the old HICAS system, using a number of sensors it reduces both under and over-steer by applying brake pressure or cutting power from individual wheels. This technology makes the car very easy drive at the limit.

Over all the R35 Skyline is a fantastic much improved car it has lost some of its hardcore sport-ness but this has been replaced with a more luxurious livable car. I put this car in a different class to that of previous models and place it up their with more luxury sports cars like BMW and Audi.  I believe the R35 Nissan Skyline appeals to a larger audience which is good news for Nissan. For pictures, videos and more information about this skyline and more I recommend you visit http://nissanskyline.6te.net.


Glenn Munn	
Skyline enthusiast


