Title: 
Make Way for the Ford Edge

Word Count:
443

Summary:
The Ford Edge made its way to public knowledge when it was presented by the Ford Motor Company during the Detroit Motor Show this year. It actually combines both the space and room of traditional sport utility vehicles with the maneuverability, flexibility, and fuel efficiency of most modern vehicles.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford,Ford Edge,Ford parts,Ford accessories,Ford truck parts


Article Body:
Another addition to Ford’s lineup for class leading vehicles is the 2007 Ford Edge. It is a new midsize crossover vehicle. At its introduction, Ford targets that this vehicle should be able to compete head to head with vehicle imports like the Toyota Highlander and the Nissan Murano. Built on the Ford CD3 platform, the 2007 Ford Edge will certainly be something to look forward to. Just imagine, this platform has also been used for other highly known and respected vehicles like the Ford Fusion, the Mercury Milan, and the upcoming Lincoln Zephyr. 

People who have been able to look at the 2007 Ford Edge has come to state that this vehicle certainly could pass for another Ford Fusion. This is because the Ford Edge has the same front end styling that the other vehicle has. Rumors also have it that this new vehicle would be coming equipped with the very same power source behind the Ford Fusion machine. So that would very much mean that the 2007 Ford Edge will have a 3.0 liter V6 engine with four cylinders as its power source. Although some rumors proclaim that the engine could be upgraded to a 3.5 liter engine with six cylinders. This vehicle certainly looks slightly heavier than the Ford Fusion. Come the time that this vehicle will make its way to the streets and the rest of the American market, it would be able to fill the niche between the Ford Escape and the Ford Explorer. 

The Ford Edge made its way to public knowledge when it was presented by the Ford Motor Company during the Detroit Motor Show this year. It actually combines both the space and room of traditional sport utility vehicles with the maneuverability, flexibility, and fuel efficiency of most modern vehicles. This is what cars have to have so as to be able to compete in the fast growing crossover utility vehicle segment in the automobile market. This segment actually has been predicted to surpass and upstage the sport utility vehicles come the end of this year. And it is very much likely that with the Ford Edge, the Ford Motor Company is on its way to accomplishing greater heights and wider ranges. 

Mark Fields, Ford Motor Company’s president in the United States and the rest of North America, states, “Edge underscores the bold, American design direction for all Ford vehicles going forward. Edge also is packed with Ford innovation – from its panoramic glass roof and laptop friendly center console to fuel saving engine and advanced safety features. We expect Edge to make waves in the hot crossover market this year just like the Fusion did for midsize cars last year.”


