Title: 
Make Way for the GMC Canyon

Word Count:
526

Summary:
Offered in three body styles, the GMC Canyon is a pickup to consider. This vehicle looks impressive. It also brags about a lot of power as well as a spacious interior. The vehicle also comes with an all new five speed manual transmission system.


Keywords:
auto parts,Gmc,Gmc canyon,fog lights,harmonic balancer,Gmc parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
The GMC Canyon is a compact pickup. This vehicle shares it basic design and powertrain with the Chevrolet Colorado. Offered in three body styles, the GMC Canyon is a pickup to consider. This vehicle looks impressive. It also brags about a lot of power as well as a spacious interior. The cargo space is also very accommodating. 

The body styles comprise of the regular cab body style, the extended cab body style, and the Crew cab body style. For regular cabs, the maximum capacity of passengers it can take in its cabin is three. The extended cab has a rear hinged back door and has the capacity to take in a maximum passenger capacity of five due to two rear jump seats. As per the Crew cab, this body style holds four doors and has a maximum capacity of welcoming in six people because of its folding rear bench. The GMC Canyon is very much suited for personal use as well as light duty use. Even if it is a pickup it probably would not be able to work well for commercial use, heavy hauling, as well as for towing functions. 

The GMC Canyon has a couple of engine choices for interested parties. There is the standard 2.9 liter Vortec inline engine which has four cylinders. This engine can produce some 175 horsepower and 185 pound feet of torque. The optional 3.5 liter Vortec engine has five cylinders and it can make 200 units of horsepower and 225 pound feet of torque. Both of these engines come with an electronic throttle control, variable valve timing, and coil on plug ignition. The vehicle also comes with an all new five speed manual transmission system. 

The interior of the GMC Canyon holds 60/40 bench seats in cloth of vinyl. Made available for this vehicle are reclining bucket seats. The other features also include two forward facing rear seats with under-seat storage and a flat-load floor. There also is a driver information center with system readouts, an electrochromic rearview mirror with compass and outside temperature gauge, heated leather bucket seats, an AM/FM stereo with an optional in-dash six CD changer, the OnStar system, and the XM satellite radio. The GMC Canyon also has a six foot cargo box, a two tier loading, as well as a locking tailgate. For safety, the GMC Canyon has dual stage front air bags, optional head curtain side air bags, a reinforced safety cage and side guard door beams, high intensity halogen headlamps, fog lamps, an all-steel body, three point lap shoulder belts, and the LATCH system. 

Auto Parts Discount on the other hand meets GMC’s high standards to preserve GMC vehicles’ performance at its best as well as make the vehicle last for years. This does its share by having a wide array of impressive GMC Canyon parts as well as other auto parts, performance parts, replacement parts, aftermarket parts, and accessories. All auto parts in Auto Parts Discount’s online collection include tailgate handles, fog lights, front bumpers,harmonic balancers, and oxygen sensors among many others. These are all genuine quality GMC parts and they are available in great discounts and wholesale deals. 
</p>


