Title: 
Making Rounds With the Ford Courier

Word Count:
343

Summary:
The American utility van was called the Ford Courier. This lived in the 1950s and the entire line was halted come the year 1957. When people speak of the Ford Courier, they are mostly to describe the vehicle as a very versatile one for it can actually do various things and various activities that its owner indulges and engages in.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford,Ford Courier,Ford parts,Ford accessories,Ford Courier parts,mechanical parts,transmission parts


Article Body:
What is a courier? Definition for this word says that a courier is a person or a company that holds the responsibility of delivering packages, and mail. This job is done between offices usually and is much quicker compared to regular mail. For large areas like cities, couriers often utilize bicycles or motorbikes however at present, trucks and aircrafts are used. 

With this kind of definition, one could find that indeed, a courier has also been making the rounds in the auto world. Of course this courier has been roaming the streets and roads not to deliver packages and mail but actually delivers cargo and passengers with superb comfort. Going back to the history of automobiles, one would be able to find that there have been a couple of distinct Ford vehicle lines that were known as the Ford Courier. 

The American utility van was called the Ford Courier. This lived in the 1950s and the entire line was halted come the year 1957. It held a six cylinder or eight cylinder engine. It was a panel van that was based on a sedan that time. From the year 1991 up until 2002, the European van was also called the same. In Brazil, the pick up there was also called the Ford Courier and this pick up has been doing its responsibilities since 1998 up to the present. From 1972 up until 1983, there was another American pick up that held the same name. This pick up was also the same one that has been doing its chores in Australia and in New Zealand. The Ford Courier in these areas has lived for so long. In fact, it started in 1972 and is continuing up until the present. 

When people speak of the Ford Courier, they are mostly to describe the vehicle as a very versatile one for it can actually do various things and various activities that its owner indulges and engages in. Be it for normal driving or even for off road challenges, the Ford Courier meets all these very well because of its power, performance and comfort.


