Title: 
Mazda MX 6: Shining Amidst A New Trend

Word Count:
545

Summary:
One of the vehicles that run under the popular brand of the Mazda company is the Mazda MX 6 which was introduced in the early 1988. This vehicle holds performance, versatility and style amidst the trend in the automobile world where sports coupes were running low and the world is slowly becoming invaded by sport utility vehicles. But the Mazda MX 6 was a sports coupe and yet it continues to shine amidst the current trend that time.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda mx6 parts,Mazda accessories,wheels


Article Body:
Who does not know what a Mazda is? Mazda has certainly been one of the most popular and most recognized vehicle brands the world over. A person who has been living in a world where there are automobiles and vehicles and cars would certainly know what a Mazda is. This vehicle brand is probably very popular because of the type and kind of cars that they craft and produce. The vehicles are made of quality materials, are unique, and can really do perform well. 

This vehicle company was founded in the year 1920. It was known then as the Toyo Cork Kogyo Co., Ltd. and it was led by Jujiro Matsuda. The company’s first products were machine tools, however it later on shifted to producing automobiles. The very first vehicle that they produced was the Mazda Go and it was done in 1931. Uniquely, unlike any other vehicle, the Mazda Go actually held only three wheels. Even if the company has been producing vehicles since 1931, Mazda was only fully and officially recognized as an automobile maker in 1960. This time, the company had already been able to produce their very first car with four wheels. And they named it the Mazda R380 coupe. 

One of the vehicles that run under the popular brand of the Mazda company is the Mazda MX 6 which was introduced in the early 1988. This vehicle holds performance, versatility and style amidst the trend in the automobile world where sports coupes were running low and the world is slowly becoming invaded by sport utility vehicles. But the Mazda MX 6 was a sports coupe and yet it continues to shine amidst the current trend that time. 

The Mazda MX 6 made its way to public knowledge through the Auto Alliance which was actually a joint business enterprise of Mazda and Ford. The sports coupe, Mazda MX 6, held auto parts that were mostly the very same ones that the Ford Probe used. Because of this, the Mazda MX 6 and the Ford Probe were considered to be vehicle twins. Making this vehicle unique was that the designs were actually based on a concept car in the early 1980’s. It held a GD platform. It was also made available in several trims which comprised of the LX, the DX, the LE, and the GT. The power of this vehicle comes from a 2.2 liter SOHC Mazda F2 engine which held four cylinders. This engine has the capacity to produce 110 horsepower. A turbocharged version of this very same engine could be found mounted on the Mazda MX 6 GT trim. The turbocharged version can produce some 145 units of horsepower. 

Come the second generation of the Mazda MX 6. The new ones held engines that were capable of producing more power. And because of that, it also was very much capable of giving a more impressive performance. For this new batch, the engines that were offered included a 2.0 liter FS engine with four inline cylinders capable of making some 118 horsepower, and the 2.5 liter V6 engine that could produce some 164 to 170 units of horsepower.

Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts has a long list of high quality Mazda MX6 parts, aftermarket parts, performance parts, replacement parts, and accessories that can be accessed through their easy to navigate website. Cool discounts and affordable prices await buyers.


