Title: 
Mazda Millenia: Simplicity and Luxury

Word Count:
498

Summary:
The Mazda Millenia could be quite considered as Mazda’s flagship, that is if Mazda were to sell a premium brand, which it did not do. The Mazda Millenia has been designed and crafted to be a premium-brand product that would be able to compete with well-known luxury vehicles like the Infiniti I35, the Acura TL, and the Lexus ES 300.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda Millenia parts


Article Body:
This midsize luxury car for Mazda was originally planned to be introduced and to be marketed under Amati as the Pegasus and would be from Amati, which is the luxury brand of the Mazda automobile manufacturer. The Mazda Millenia was first introduced in 1995 as an entry-level luxury car under the Mazda brand. And just during that same year, the Toyota Avalon also made its public debut, and this vehicle later on became the Mazda Millenia’s competitor. This vehicle replaced the Mazda 929 for North America. The entire production of this vehicle was then halted in 2003 due to a quite unsuccessful experience in sales. This vehicle was later on replaced by the Mazda 6. 

The Mazda Millenia could be quite considered as Mazda’s flagship, that is if Mazda were to sell a premium brand, which it did not do. This vehicle offers value among its luxury sedans counterparts. This vehicle has a supercharged V6 engine offering a maximum of 210 horsepower. It is considered to be one of the most interesting vehicles in the near-luxury class. It offers a crisp handling that entails a comfortable and luxurious long drive. Also, road trips would not be an uncomfortable one with the Mazda Millenia since this vehicle also provides great and easy comfort for its passengers. For a fact, the Mazda Millenia has been designed and crafted to be a premium-brand product that would be able to compete with well-known luxury vehicles like the Infiniti I35, the Acura TL, and the Lexus ES 300. This Mazda Millenia has been crafted and designed with two trim levels available which comprises of the Millenia Premium, and the Millenia S. 

The last year that the Mazda Millenia underwent redesigning and restyling, the vehicle experienced a complete replacement of every panel forward of the windshield, along with its rear end and tail lights. It has been given a sharper, clear, and more defined look. It also came with 17 inch wheels and tires, along with a small front spoiler that has become the Mazda Millenia’s identity. 

This vehicle has a maximum capacity of five passengers as per its cabin. Standard equipment for this vehicle includes leather seating surfaces, leather inner door panels, a steering wheel wrapped in leather, a shift knob and handbrake handle, a wood trim, an automatic climate control, a theft deterrent system, a remote keyless entry system, a power tilt-adjustable steering wheel, dual 8-way power seats, a power moonroof, cruise control, ABS, a Bose premium AM/FM/cassette/CD stereo, traction control, and front spoiler. 

Further information on the Mazda Millenia and Mazda vehicles and auto parts could be found in the comfort of your own homes through the Internet. There is a handful of great sites worth visiting. These sites also offer and sell high quality Mazda auto parts and Mazda Millenia parts. One of the leading Mazda parts suppliers is Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts. Mazda owners can take a look at their fine selection of top quality Mazda auto parts.


