Title: 
Mazda Navajo: The Cheaper Twin

Word Count:
536

Summary:
The Mazda Navajo is a sport utility vehicle that sported two doors. It was made available as a four wheel drive. In essence, critics have commented that this vehicle is just a Ford Explorer with the brand name changed to Mazda.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda 323 parts,air intake,clutch parts,suspension


Article Body:
Introduced in 1991 and sold only in the United States, the Mazda Navajo is a sport utility vehicle that sported two doors. It was made available as a four wheel drive. The Mazda Navajo has been crafted so as to target the market for sporty SUVs. 

In essence, critics have commented that this vehicle is just a Ford Explorer with the brand name changed to Mazda. This vehicle has been offered in two trim levels which comprise of the base and the LX. The trivia is that the entire vehicle was bought from the Ford Motor Company by Mazda and Mazda just added in its own grille, tail lamps and some minor body trim. This makes things easier in differentiating the two mentioned vehicles, the Mazda Navajo has a different grille, different tail lights, as well as wheels because of that very reason. However, comparing the interior of the vehicles, both contained very much the same features except for the seat fabrics and the steering wheel hub which proved to be the only things setting these two vehicles apart. 

The Mazda Navajo base sports standard power windows, power locks and power windows. The Mazda Navajo LX trim, on the other hand, adds up other features like extra interior illumination and a steering wheel wrapped in leather. Optional packages for accessorizing and sprucing up the vehicle include luxurious features like air conditioning, a stereo system with cassette deck, a cruise control, sports seats that show off power lumbar adjustment, and a pop up and removable moonroof. Standard features for the Mazda Navajo include a part time electronic Touch-Drive 4WD system, rear antilock brakes that operate only in 2-wheel drives, four wheel anti-lock brakes, and a split folding rear seat.

What have changed for the Mazda Navajo were only a few minor details that gave the Ford Explorer a chance to move up the ranks. The Mazda Navajo received an optional CD player, and new five-spoke alloy wheels. Sales became quite low for this vehicle, thus the company has decided to drop this SUV out of its line up and replace it with the Mazda Tribute. However, in spite of this, the vehicle still held the title of Motor Trend magazine’s Truck of the Year award for 1991. 

The Mazda Navajo has suffered from a poor fuel economy, a not so spectacular ride, and driving noise. However, these were overpowered by the advantages that the vehicle sported. The list includes an excellent acceleration, a spacious passenger and cargo room, 4WD traction, and anti-lock brakes. The Mazda Navajo also would be a better choice if compared with the Ford Explorer. After all, the parts are all the same. It is in the value for money that makes the difference between the two. 

Likewise, Mazda Parts and Mazda 323 Parts has a supercharged line up of innovative Mazda auto body parts that play an integral part in any replacement needs for Mazda vehicles. These superior Mazda auto parts could push Mazda vehicles’ performance to the next level. The best Mazda auto parts are found at Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts’ online store. The collection includes air intake parts, brakes, climate control, clutch parts, electrical parts, suspension and a whole lot more.


