Title: 
Mazda MX3: Shining Through the Dark Ages

Word Count:
501

Summary:
The Mazda MX3 holds no secrets and is crafted not to deceive. If you see modern styling and design, that is because the Mazda MX3 has unbridled and innovative performance parts that give life to the car. This vehicle not only made waves in the automobile industry. Truth is, it also made a splash in the movie theaters for it was used and spotted in several movies.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda MX3 parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
If there are the Dark Ages in the journey through history, there also are some gloomy years and periods in the automobile world. The late 1980s and 1990s was considered to be the Dark Ages for most sports coupes. And yet, beneath the gloom, there was one that stood out and had brought the line on forward. The Mazda MX3 was the chosen one. Amidst the dark sales and gloomy market for sports coupes, the Mazda MX3 continued to move forward and reaped in success. Despite the gloomy period, the Mazda MX3 soared and this period became known as its golden years. 

The Mazda MX3 has the capacity to take in a maximum of four passengers. It made its public debut in 1992. It lived for a couple of years. The last year for production was in 1998, thus making the Mazda MX3 a six-year-old wonder. The design and construction of this sports coupe was based on the Mazda Familia platform that was known as the EC platform. Perhaps what made the Mazda MX3 a spectacle was its departure from the classic styling of the 1980s which was boxy and quite conservative. This vehicle sported instead smooth fluid lines that showed and exuded modernity and a higher sense of excellent and comfortable driving. 

The Mazda MX3 holds no secrets and is crafted not to deceive. What you see is what you get. If you see modern styling and design, that is because the Mazda MX3 has unbridled and innovative performance parts that give life to the car. Two engine options are available. These are the 1.6 liter I4 and the 1.8 liter V6. The Mazda MX3 was marketed in different countries around the globe. With that, the company, Mazda, decided to market it under different names. In Canada, the Mazda MX3 was known as the Mazda MX 3 Precidia. In Australia, it was known as the Eunos 30X. In Japan, the vehicle was called the Eunos Presso, Autozam AZ 3, and Mazda AZ 3. 

This vehicle not only made waves in the automobile industry. Truth is, it also made a splash in the movie theaters for it was used and spotted in several movies. In Dumb and Dumber, it was spotted in a convenience store scene. In Ransom, it was there in the final shoot out scene. The Whole Nine Yards, viewers saw a red Mazda MX3 parked in the driveway on the ride side of the screen. The Fast and the Furious also used the Mazda MX3. Other films and movies that had Mazda MX3s included Sweet November, Someone Like You, 15 Minutes, Analyze That, ALIAS, The Italian Job, Deliver Us From Eva, 2 Fast 2 Furious, Cellular, Saved!, Spiderman 2, Laws of Attraction and I, Robot. 

Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts sells replacement Mazda MX3 parts and other Mazda parts and accessories online at discounted wholesale prices. Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts’ online store is easily accessed and is available 24 hours a day. Their auto parts are guaranteed to be of highest quality.
</p>


