Title: 
Mazda RX 7: Small But Terrible

Word Count:
382

Summary:
Sometimes, being small is an advantage. That is possibly why the Mazda RX 7 was able to make its way to the top. It could work in racing. It could also be a good element during heavy traffic.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda rx 7,Mazda 323 parts,accessories,electrical parts,mechanical parts,clutch parts,Mazda parts


Article Body:
The Mazda RX 7 is a sports car that had started in production in 1978. It is also known as the Savanna and the Efini RX 7. The first batch of this vehicle actually went to be part of the affordable sports car segment. It held various competitors that include the Datsun/Nissan 280 Z. The Mazda RX 7 holds a unique twin rotor Wankel rotary engine as well as a sporty front midship rear wheel drive layout. It was also well balanced and was very appropriate for racing because of the latter. This sports car actually replaced the Mazda RX 3. However, the fact is that both the Mazda RX 7 and the Mazda RX 3 were sold in Japan as the Mazda Savanna. 

Sometimes, being small is an advantage. That is possibly why the Mazda RX 7 was able to make its way to the top. It could work in racing. It could also be a good element during heavy traffic. However, even if this vehicle is small, it has been packed with excellent power. 

This is due to the Mazda RX 7’s rotary engine that has been equipped with triangular rotors that takes the place of pistons when it is compared with ordinary type of engines. Once these triangular rotors are in place, the engine is able to provide a smooth and responsive performance so much so that no matter what kind road the Mazda RX 7 may be on would prove not to be a hindrance or an annoyance. These triangular rotors could work well with the twin rotor twin turbocharged engine as well as a manual transmission or even an automatic transmission. Its five speed manual transmission could provide the machine some 255 units of unbridled horsepower. 

Take a ride inside the Mazda RX 7’s interior and one would find two sporty seats. These seats do not look out of place and it works so well as per the whole package of this sports car. There are various amenities and they have been strategically positioned so that each could be easily reached and operated by the driver. This vehicle holds a highly functional air conditioning unit, an electric roof, and a steering wheel clad in leather just to name a few. This sports car both shows great appeal not only from its exterior but its interior as well.


