Title: 
Mazda To Introduce CX-9 At New York Auto Show

Word Count:
346

Summary:
One of the vehicles that would be hitting and bagging in the attention of this car show’s audience would be the new vehicle from the Mazda Motor Company. The Mazda North American Operations (MNAO) has sent out a press release informing the public that come the NYIAS, the all-new 2007 Mazda CX-9 vehicle would be unveiled and introduced to the public for the first time.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda CX-9,Mazda 323 parts,Mazda parts,Mazda accessories,Mazda a/c condenser


Article Body:
Another auto show is yet to hit the automobile world and automobile manufacturers are sprucing up their vehicles to make them shine under the spotlight. Come the 14th of April up until the 23rd of the same month this year, the 2006 New York International Automobile Show (NYIAS) would be underway. 

The auto show chairman, John LaSorsa, was caught saying, “There are more all-new cars and trucks coming to the 2006 Show than we’ve ever seen before. From the luxury new S-class Mercedes and Jaguar XK Convertible to the nimble and fuel efficient Nissan Versa and Honda Fit, the Javits Center will be overflowing with completely new and re-styled 2006 and ’07 model year vehicles.”

One of the vehicles that would be hitting and bagging in the attention of this car show’s audience would be the new vehicle from the Mazda Motor Company. The Mazda North American Operations (MNAO) has sent out a press release informing the public that come the NYIAS, the all-new 2007 Mazda CX-9 vehicle would be unveiled and introduced to the public for the first time. 

What is the 2007 Mazda CX-9? It is a crossover sport utility vehicle and it has the capacity to take in some seven passengers in its interior. Come the early months of 2007, this crossover vehicle would then be hitting Mazda dealerships, although the company admits that this vehicle has been specially crafted, designed, and engineered for North America only. It holds a new set of style and design as well as sophistication, space, and versatility. This is because the CX-9 is a vehicle that would one of the breakaways from the traditional boxy sport utility vehicles in the US automobile market. 

According to Jim O’Sullivan, the MNAO’s president and CEO, “The North American market continues to play a leading role in Mazda Motor Corporation’s global future and financial health. The all-new CX-7 and CX-9 were engineered specifically for North America to help us fulfill ambitious goals. The CX-9 has traits only a Mazda SUV could have: strong performance, agile handling, precise steering, and superior quality and craftsmanship.”


