Title: 
Mazda3 Included In Kbb.com’s Most Researched Vehicles For 2006’s First Half

Word Count:
291

Summary:
Kelley Blue Book has just most recently revealed its list of the most researched vehicles for the first half of the year 2006. And the stylish Mazda Mazda3 has been included in the list.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda parts,Mazda MX-3 parts,Mazda body parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
Kelley Blue Book (www.kbb.com) has just most recently revealed its list of the most researched vehicles for the first half of the year 2006. And the stylish Mazda Mazda3 has been included in the list. 

The Mazda Mazda3 is also marketed under the name Mazda Axela. It has been produced since 2003 and its predecessor includes the Mazda Familia which is also known by other names like Mazda 323 and Mazda Protégé. The Mazda Mazda 3 is a compact vehicle and has been built in two body styles which comprise of the hatchback with five doors and the sedan that holds four. For its engine, owners and interested parties could choose from six choices – the 1.4 liter MZR I4, the 1.5 liter MZR I4, the 1.6 liter MZR I4, 2.0 liter MZR I4, 2.3 liter MZR I4, and the 1.6 liter MZ-CD I4 engines. Its competition in the automobile market include the Saturn Ion, Chevrolet Cobalt, Honda Civic, Nissan Sentra, Scion tC, Toyota Corolla, Volkswagen Golf, and Ford Focus. 

Anyhow, Kelley Blue Book is the most trusted source for information on vehicles old and new in the United States. They were able to come up with such a list through the information that they were able to collect from the various unique visitors to their site that totaled up to more than 60 million. The most researched vehicles for 2006’s first half includes a variety of vehicles. 

Honda and Toyota vehicles took the most share. Honda vehicles Civic, Accord, Odyssey, Pilot, and CR-V are included. As per the Toyota share, the list includes the Camry, Corolla, RAV4, 4Runner, Sienna, Highlander, and Avalon. And aside from the Mazda3, other vehicles included in the list are the Ford Mustang, Nissan Altima, BMW 325, Acura TL, Ford Escape, Infiniti G35, and Chevrolet Tahoe.


