Title: 
Mazda CX 7 Delivers

Word Count:
508

Summary:
From the MX Crossport concept, it has now come to become known as the 2007 Mazda CX 7. This vehicle is a midsize crossover sport utility vehicle model. This vehicle has been created and mounted on an all new platform rather than the rumors that it would be having the very same platform that the Ford Edge and Lincoln MKX crossovers would be using – the Ford/Mazda CD3 platform.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda parts,Mazda cx 7,accessories,body kits,truck parts,engines


Article Body:
From the MX Crossport concept, it has now come to become known as the 2007 Mazda CX 7. This vehicle is a midsize crossover sport utility vehicle model. And the Mazda CX 7 is actually the production version of the said concept car. Built in Hiroshima in Japan, this vehicle went out to be known by the public during last January’s 2006 Los Angeles Auto Show. 

Like Mazda, Same Day Car Parts never compromises satisfaction when serving customers. Dependable and long lasting Mazda replacement parts, performance parts, and accessories make up its stock that is counted to be over a million in number. The list of Mazda parts included in its collection include accessories, auto parts, body kits, body parts, engines, engine parts, performance parts, and truck parts among many others. 

This vehicle has been created and mounted on an all new platform rather than the rumors that it would be having the very same platform that the Ford Edge and Lincoln MKX crossovers would be using – the Ford/Mazda CD3 platform. However, the Mazda CX 7 would be using a new one. Alongside with that, the Mazda CX 7 will also be having a front suspension system that the Mazda MPV minivan also uses as well as a rear suspension system shared with the Mazda 5. As per most of the all wheel drive system components as well as the turbocharged engine, these would be coming from the Mazda Mazdaspeed 6. Made available for the new Mazda CX 7 is a six speed sport automatic transmission system. 

As previously mentioned, the Mazda CX 7 will be using a turbocharged engine that is also used by the Mazda Mazdaspeed6. This engine will power the Mazda CX 7 machine. It actually holds 2.3 liters and it is a straight four MZR engine. It has been crafted so as to be able to produce some 244 units of horsepower at 5000 rpm and some 258 pound feet of torque at a low of 2500 rpm. 

The Mazda CX 7 comes as a complete package of various features. Included in the list of all the features is a fully independent suspension system, four wheel ventilated disc brakes with standard four wheel anti lock braking system (ABS), a Dynamic Stability Control (DSC) system, a Traction Control System (TCS), a front wheel drive, and Mazda’s active torque split all wheel drive. As per the active torque split all wheel drive, there actually is computer controlled coupling that feeds up to fifty perfect of the engine’s torque to the Mazda CX 7’s wheels. 

Jim O’Sullivan, president and CEO of Mazda North American Operations says about the Mazda CX 7, “Mazda President Hisakazu Imaki is committed to bringing new products to market and expanding our line of vehicles. The addition of the Mazda CX 7 is great news and a critical step forward for us in North America. To successfully grow our business, we have to be true to our core values and for any vehicle to wear the Winged-M logo on the grilled, it must have the soul of a sports car. I am convinced this vehicle will deliver.”


