Title: 
Mazda RX 7: Legendary, Mythical

Word Count:
463

Summary:
A legend of a sports car. The Mazda RX 7 had its humble beginnings going back to the year 1978. This vehicle may be that popular for most people around the world. This is certainly because the Mazda RX 7 has been known for various names around the world.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda rx7,Mazda parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
A legend of a sports car. The Mazda RX 7 had its humble beginnings going back to the year 1978. This vehicle may be that popular for most people around the world. This is certainly because the Mazda RX 7 has been known for various names around the world. In fact, the very same vehicle is also known as the Mazda Savanna and also as the Efini RX 7. The name Mazda Savanna was actually used in Japan. Certainly, the Mazda RX 7 has become a legend and a myth in itself because of the power, performance, and delivery that it is capable of. Proof of that is its being included in the Car and Driver magazine’s Ten Best list for a total of five times in its lifetime. 

Behind the design, styling, and specified features and details, the Mazda RX 7 actually was first thought and designed as an affordable vehicle that would be able to compete with the biggest names in the affordable sports car segment. It has been destined to compete with the Datsun / Nissan 280Z. Inspiration for styling and design of the Mazda RX 7 came from the Lotus Elan 2 + 2. Upon production, the Mazda RX 7 came featuring and holding a unique twin rotor Wankel rotary engine. It also was a proud owner of a sporty front midship and rear wheel drive layout. This has made this sports car well balanced and very much appropriate for doing great speeds and competing in races. 

One could say that the Mazda RX 7 was a direct replacement for the Mazda RX 3. Although this was so, both of these vehicles were known as the Mazda Savanna in Japan. Later on, the Mazda RX 7 then took over and replaced all the other rotary cars from the automobile company with the exception though of the Mazda Cosmo. Many followers of this vehicle point out that this vehicle has certainly been a vehicle that held a true sports coupe design compared to other sports cars like the Triumph TR 6 or other sedans that try to look like sports cars but just fail to do so. This vehicle, the Mazda RX 7, has come a long way since its introduction in the United States and the rest of North America. 

For all of your Mazda RX 7 parts and all other Mazda parts needs, you can actually browse through one of the largest Mazda parts suppliers in the United States – Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts. Here you can find quite a collection of Mazda a/c condensers, alternators, front bumpers, rear bumpers, carpets, catalytic converters, radiators, spoilers, starters, and wheels among many others. Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts also has a friendly and accommodating customer service staff who are ready to lend you a hand regarding your most demanding Mazda parts inquiries and questions.


