Title: 
Mercedes E-Class: Harnessing The Wow Factor

Word Count:
538

Summary:
Mercedes is about to release its all-new E-Class line of luxury cars. With 29 variations planned, DaimlerChrysler is hoping that you will be impressed enough to purchase the 2007 model, its most recent effort to wrest sales away from its German rival, BMW.


Keywords:
Mercedes parts, Mercedes accessories, E-class, S-class, M-class, AMG, Mercedes Benz, DaimlerChyrsler


Article Body:
Mercedes is about to release its all new E-Class to the European market this spring, with its North American debut scheduled for some time in the fall. Fresh on the heels of its successful launch of the all new S-Class, Mercedes is pinning much on these two lines to help turn their fortunes around. Indeed, Mercedes has found itself in the uncomfortable position of being in BMW’s rear view mirror, something that DaimlerChrysler is working hard on reversing by way of releasing new models. In any event, there is much to anticipate regarding the E-Class with a staggering 29 different model variations planned. Will you be amongst those waiting in fervent anticipation for the new Benz to arrive? Let’s take a sneak peek at just what Mercedes is planning to offer with its updated model.

Mercedes recently found itself in an odd position: trailing German rival BMW in their ongoing battle for sales supremacy. The news was hard for Stuttgart to swallow, but it has also served as a wake up call as parent DaimlerChrysler is now pouring some extra attention into its German luxury brand. Over the past several years the company’s American brands, commonly known as The Chrysler Group, have been the recipients of DCX largesse with Mercedes getting limited assistance, at least in the eyes of some critics. Now, with the S-Class on the market, with the E-Class soon to appear, and with other models being updated, Mercedes is poised to quickly regain the top spot that was wrested away by BMW.

The new E-Class features quite a number of changes including the following:

<b>Pre-Safe is standard.</b> This is Mercedes’ safety system that automatically adjusts seatbelt and seat settings in anticipation of a crash. In addition, the sunroof and windows automatically close up if a crash is pending.

<b>Introduction of an Intelligent Light System.</b> The E-Class’ headlights will automatically adjust according to the driving conditions. Big changes include enhancements to the fog light system for better vision, a widening of the vision field, and better use of cornering technology to have the headlamps cover areas previously outside of its range.

<b>Ten engine choices.</b> From four cylinder turbo diesels up to a 5.5L V8, the E-Class’s engine range will be incomparably better than any of its competitors. Indeed, a 514 horsepower E63 AMG version will also be released, making this model the most powerful E-Class every built.

Other improvements with the new model include a better air conditioning system, a retuned chassis, and more responsive steering. In addition, the entire front end has been redone with the emphasis on a more aggressive look for the new model.

Prices for the E-Class will start at just over $44,000 and go well over $100,000 for the AMG model. Will the E-Class help Mercedes recoup its lead? The smart money says yes, but not without a fight from BMW who is also rolling out several new models this year.

In all, the cars coming down the pike from Mercedes are worth a closer look and certain to spark more interest in the brand, something DaimlerChrysler sincerely hopes to achieve. With 29 variations offered, will the “wow factor” persuade you to purchase a Mercedes E-Class?


