Title: 
Modified Car Online Auctions

Word Count:
312

Summary:
Modified Car Auctions is a growing market and has tons of fans.


Keywords:
modified cars, autos, mod cars, modified car


Article Body:
When it comes to modified cars there has been a growing interest from people who since seeing films like the fast and the furious love the idea of modifying their car to suit there taste. With the modified car market growth it has made lots of new firm's rich. From the customisers to the tv companies the prosperity of modifying rides has been spread amongst lots of areas of business.

Its this modified car business which propelled westwood and other famous stars to becoming tv presentors, something which further expands the market. 
While a lot of the money to be made out of modified auto mobiles has been made, there is still substantial positive movement making it a fairly safe investment to start a modified related business. 

So if you want a modern day business concept you cant go wrong with joining the ranks of mechanics within the market. 

We have been monitoring the 'big bang' of modified cars from our website ModAuctions - where we not only provide a ton of modified cars for sale listings but behind all that we watch the growing audience and what they search for. The most popular phrase used to find modified cars in april 2008 for example was 'Modified Wheel' followed closely by 'best modification'. In watching the metrics of customers, viewers and search numbers we are able to project estimates on where the modified car market is going, how its growing and how its swallowing similar markets.

You can view full statistics and detailed graphs on the changing face of modified cars as a business market on the site. Our most exciting figures show how paint jobs are growing at a very fast rate, the specialism of 'air art' has stood out for the last quarter as one of the  most popular submarkets under modified motors.

The time is now - lets get modifying our cars!!


