Title: 
More Mercedes Benz Open Air Vehicles On The Road

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Mercedes Benz is out and making sure that it keeps its current position as the leading supplier in the world of convertibles and roadsters that are entrants to the luxury segment as well as the premium segment. In fact, Mercedes Benz is very much popular and famous all around the globe for all the products that it sends out to the market.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mercedes Benz,Mercedes Benz parts,Mercedes Benz accessories


Article Body:
Mercedes Benz is out and making sure that it keeps its current position as the leading supplier in the world of convertibles and roadsters that are entrants to the luxury segment as well as the premium segment. In fact, Mercedes Benz is very much popular and famous all around the globe for all the products that it sends out to the market. The list of Mercedes Benz products includes not only automobiles and cars but also buses, coaches, and even trucks. 

The numbers of Mercedes Benz open air vehicles already out on the road could be quite staggering. According to the company, there are already 200,000 models of the Mercedes Benz CLK convertible sold since it was launched in the auto market back in the year 1998. Of course, with that, there must be millions of wholesale Mercedes Benz parts already in the market to support the huge rise of Mercedes Benz vehicles. As per the Mercedes Benz CLK, it is a midsize luxury car which found itself competing with the likes of the BMW 3 series, the Volvo C70, as well as the Infiniti G35. 

Sure enough, all Mercedes Benz roadsters that are in the market have proven that they are the undisputed leaders in such a segment. Other than the Mercedes Benz CLK, there also is the Mercedes Benz SLK class which is a legend in itself. Success is something that these convertibles and roadsters have plenty. It made its debut in March of the year 2004 and now there are already some 125,000 owners of this roadster. 

Another Mercedes Benz vehicle is the SL class which now holds the title as the best selling car in the segment of luxury roadsters. Keep in mind that it has only been launched back in 2001 and now it continues to hold on to a huge portion of the auto market.


