Title: 
Moving Mountains with the Mercury Mountaineer

Word Count:
414

Summary:
The Mercury Mountaineer is said to be the Mercury twin of the Ford Explorer. Upon the introduction of the Mercury Mountaineer for this year, 2006, the 4 x 2 Convenience 4.0 L has been equipped with a 4.0 liter V6 engine which was the standard engine.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mercury,Mercury Mountaineer parts,Mercury parts,Mercury accessories


Article Body:
The Mercury Mountaineer is said to be the Mercury twin of the Ford Explorer. And it is a sport utility vehicle that has four doors. It also has the capacity to take in a maximum of seven passengers in its spacious interior. And aside from that, Mercury, the brand, has given its customers and patrons the opportunity to choose from eight trim levels, from the most basic 4 x 2 Convenience 4.0 liter to the most sophisticated AWD Premier 4.6 L. 

Upon the introduction of the Mercury Mountaineer for this year, 2006, the 4 x 2 Convenience 4.0 L has been equipped with a 4.0 liter V6 engine which was the standard engine. It has the capacity to produce some 210 units of horsepower that gives the Mercury Mountaineer the chance to take in 15 mpg for city driving and get 21 mpg as per highway travails. To assist the engine in giving a superb performance is a five speed automatic transmission system with overdrive and this is the standard transmission system for this trim level. As per the sophisticated AWD Premier 4.6 L, this trim level comes equipped with a 4.6 liter V8 engine which was the standard power source. This gives the machine the chance to work up 292 units of horsepower which can take the Mercury Mountaineer to 14 mpg for city driving and 20 mpg for the highway. It also comes equipped with a six speed automatic transmission system with overdrive, and this is also the standard equipment for this vehicle. 

The Mercury Mountaineer was actually created back in the year 1997. And it was known as the refined, restyled, and repackaged Ford version of the Ford Explorer. In fact, despite the fact that it could essentially be considered to be just another Ford vehicle, this vehicle has gone through many obstacles and soared right past those. And through the years, it has certainly left the image as just another Ford Explorer. 

Coming with the proper and right kind of equipment, the Mercury Mountaineer has been a constant favorite among those patrons who lean towards sport utility vehicles. Not only is it properly equipped but it also is a very functional vehicle for it can actually tow some 6980 pounds. And yes, it also can perform under various weather and road conditions. It is softly tuned, and has an excellent handling. Since the brand, Mercury, is under the Ford Motor Company, surely this guarantees that the Mercury Mountaineer is yet another sport utility vehicle that is top quality, and is one of the best cars in the auto industry.


