Title: 
MPV: Mazda’s Popular miniVan

Word Count:
509

Summary:
The Mazda MPV was first constructed using Mazda’s best platform that time. Making waves with the press, the Mazda MPV then earned its way to being named a part of the Car and Driver magazine’s Ten Best list for two consecutive years – 1990 and 1991.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda MPV parts,catalytic converters,carpet


Article Body:
In Japan, the Mazda MPV is known, marketed, and sold as the Efini MPV. This vehicle first made its way to public knowledge in 1989. It was constructed to be a rear wheel drive vehicle. Later on in 2000, it came back with a more modern front wheel drive. Originally, the Mazda MPV was designed in its every minute detail as a minivan. This was destined to be sold to the American market. 

The Mazda MPV was first constructed using Mazda’s best platform that time. The company used the Mazda 929’s HC to be able to develop and start out the Mazda MPV’s LV platform. Later on in the design and construction process for this vehicle, the Mazda MPV was equipped with a V6 engine and an optional all wheel drive. This vehicle features traditional hinged doors instead of the sliding rear doors. 

Making waves with the press, the Mazda MPV then earned its way to being named a part of the Car and Driver magazine’s Ten Best list for two consecutive years – 1990 and 1991. This magazine also featured the Mazda MPV as one of their “vehicles for the coming (fuel) crisis”. However, on the other hand, the Mazda MPV made a big unwanted splash with crash testers. Out of the four stars that a vehicle could receive from the Australian ANCAP crash test, the Mazda MPV only received one little star. As for the American IIHS crash tests, the vehicle received a poor “Marginal” rating. The sales for this vehicle went really well however it rapidly declined come the period when other automobile manufacturers started constructing and introducing to the market all wheel drivers and V6 engines. 

In 1996, this vehicle underwent a refreshing. The I4 engine went into retirement and it was replaced with a similar engine – a 2.5 liter unit. Come the year 2000, the Mazda MPV came with a front wheel drive LW platform that was based on the Mazda 626. This set of Mazda MPVs was considered to be the second in this model’s generation. It came this time to be more traditional than the first batch. It held sliding rear doors and a front wheel drive. However, what was different for this generation includes a rear seat that folds flat into the floor and rear door windows that are rolled down. In 2002, the changes for the vehicle included a change in power by using the Mazda AJ 3.0 liter V6 engine along with a 5-speed automatic transmission. This now has the capacity to produce 200 horsepower and 200 pound feet of torque. Other than that, upgrades included a larger grille that sported a single chrome bar at the top, a more aggressive look and new headlights and tail lights. 

All genuine quality Mazda MPV parts like a/c condensers, bumpers, carpets, wheels, radiators, hoods, and catalytic converters to name a few have been made available for customers and Mazda owners in great discounts and wholesale prices at Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts. The proven reliability of Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts’ collection keeps customer loyalty for years.


