Title: 
NADAguides’ Editors Release Favorite Summer Vehicles For 2006

Word Count:
355

Summary:
NADAguides just recently, released and announced the favorite summer vehicles as per the likes and favorites of their editors. ‘Fun in the Sun Vehicles’ is the name given to such a list. And for this year, 2006, the editors of NADAguides have chosen vehicles that they claim would surely bring about thrills.


Keywords:
auto parts,Infiniti,Infiniti car parts,infiniti accessories


Article Body:
NADAguides (www.NADAguides.com) is one of the leading sources of information on vehicles on the World Wide Web. And just recently, this source of vehicle information has released and announced the favorite summer vehicles as per the likes and favorites of their editors. 

‘Fun in the Sun Vehicles’ is the name given to such a list. And for this year, 2006, the editors of NADAguides have chosen vehicles that they claim would surely bring about thrills. The editors hand-picked the vehicles themselves and they picked the best vehicles in seven categories that were separate from each other. With the wide range of vehicle choices at present, the editors surely had a grand, yet hard, time looking for the best for each category. Just imagine how it would be like choosing the best Infiniti car parts for your vehicle.

The favorite ‘Fun in the Sun’ new car for this year is the 2006 Pontiac Solstice GXP convertible. The lead auto expert at NADAguides, Mark Perleberg, even commends the vehicle by saying, “This year it’s all about having fun and the 2006 Pontiac Solstice GXP is definitely an enjoyable ride.”

Going to the sport utility vehicle, or SUV, segment, the editors had chosen the 2006 Jeep Wrangler Unlimited Rubicon. It was even a unanimous favorite among all the editors. With this vehicle’s abilities to tread on on-road and off-road, surely, it is not much of a surprise that it was picked. 

As per the highline exotic ‘Fun in the Sun’ vehicles, the 2005 Porsche Carrera GT received the spot. Even Don Christy, Jr., who is the president and the CEO of NADAguides, found this vehicle to be a dream. He even states, “The 2005 Porsche Carrera GT is a thrill-seeker’s dream.” 

The mentioned three vehicles are just about half of the whole list. The 1965 Lincoln Continental convertible took the spot for the ‘Fun in the Sun’ collectible car. For the motorcycle segment, the 2006 Suzuki M109 was pronounced as the group’s favorite. For the favorite recreation vehicle, the 2006 Fleetwood Gearbox S4 300 FS was picked. And the Party Cruiser 32-I/O in the Sun Tracker series was chosen as the


