Title: 
NASCAR And CCC: Attending To Rising Fuel Prices

Word Count:
372

Summary:
The NASCAR Performance Automotive Licensing Program has joined forces with the CCC, or the Car Care Council, and the two organizations has done brainstorming sessions and just recently launched a consumer education campaign which they dubbed as the “Be An Angel, Maintain Your Car And Save Some Gas”.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford,Ford F150 Pickup parts,Ford parts,Ford accessories


Article Body:
Car owners and drivers, as well, certainly have felt the effects of the upward movement of gas prices. In fact, many people have opted to use public transportation rather than use their cars and vehicles because of the high amount you have to pay in exchange for a liter or so of gas. 

Now, it seems like everybody else is affected. Even the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, or much commonly known as NASCAR, have given approval for its arm, the NASCAR Performance Automotive Licensing Program, to join forces with the CCC, or the Car Care Council. Together, the two organizations has done brainstorming sessions and just recently launched a consumer education campaign which they dubbed as the “Be An Angel, Maintain Your Car And Save Some Gas”.

NASCAR and the CCC both maintain that this new campaign of theirs would also work as a call to action for all consumers. The campaign, in fact, even encourages car owners to maintain their vehicles regularly. This is because NASCAR and CCC believe that it is one of the best ways to achieve a better fuel mileage and in the process decreases expenses on gas. 

A public service announcement that lasted for thirty seconds was produced by NASCAR. The organization is positing to run the mentioned announcement come the NASCAR programming which will actually launch and run throughout the whole month of July. Aside from this, all the local television stations scattered around the United States would also be receiving a copy of this public service announcement which they would have to run during their air time. 

On the end of the Car Care Council, Rich White, its executive director, informs the public, “Higher gas prices are here to stay. But fortunately consumers can take greater control of how much gas their vehicles use by performing simple and inexpensive maintenance.” 

NASCAR’s automotive licensing managing director, Odis Lloyd, explains, “The opportunity to help consumers with their car care needs has never been more significant. By using NASCAR’s extensive media assets and partnering with our manufacturing and installer partners, we can help consumers combat rising fuel costs by getting them the necessary vehicle repair information they need to get better fuel economy.”


