Title: 
New Mazda Axela Out In Japan

Word Count:
302

Summary:
After a couple of months of waiting, the new and freshened Mazda Axela would now be out in the Japan automobile market on the 22nd of this month. This newly freshened vehicle from Mazda would be holding a new 2.3 liter Direct Injection Spark Ignition (DISI) turbo engine.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda Miata parts,Mazda parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
After a couple of months of waiting, the new and freshened Mazda Axela would now be out in the Japan automobile market on the 22nd of this month. This is according to an announcement from the Mazda Motor Corporation. This newly freshened vehicle from Mazda would be holding a new 2.3 liter Direct Injection Spark Ignition (DISI) turbo engine. 

The Mazda Axela is actually known as the Mazda 3 in all the markets around the world, except for Japan of course. It is a sporty compact car. This vehicle has been in production since 2003 and it actually replaced the Mazda Familia, Mazda 323, and Mazda Protégé in Mazda’s line up of quality vehicles. It has been crafted in two body styles which comprise of the hatchback with five door and the sedan holding four. The five-door version of this vehicle is known as the Axela Sport while the other one is mainly known as the Axela. The competition for this vehicle include the Saturn Ion, Scion tC, Chevrolet Cobalt, Toyota Corolla, Honda Civic, Volkswagen Golf, Nissan Sentra, and Ford Focus. 

The exterior of this newly freshened vehicle has been updated and modified. In fact, everything, including the front grille, its fog lamps, front bumper, rear bumper, aluminum wheels, rear roof spoiler, and side underspoiler, has been updated so that the Axela would look even sportier than before. Every part was not overlooked. 

As per the interior of this vehicle, new materials were used for the seats and its door trims. There is even a new resin panel that actually enhances the quality of the whole design of the cabin. Customers are going to have additional choices as per the color of the interior for a sporty black option has been included in the list. Other color choices include elegant beige and high-quality gray.


