Title: 
New Jaguar XK Holds Instrument Cluster From Visteon

Word Count:
299

Summary:
Jaguar has just most recently decided to have a company do the hard work in developing an advanced instrument cluster for one of its newest vehicles – the Jaguar XK. Aside from this, they made sure that such an instrument cluster still brought with it superior styling.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar parts, Jaguar MK9 parts,Jaguar accessories


Article Body:
Jaguar has just most recently decided to have a company do the hard work in developing an advanced instrument cluster for one of its newest vehicles – the Jaguar XK. This lucky company awarded with such an opportunity is the Visteon Corporation and it is a leader in driver information technology. Indeed, Jaguar has really chosen the best company to do the work in one of the important features for its vehicle. In the plans for the instrument cluster is an advanced high-resolution 3.8 inch color quarter Video Graphics Array (VGA) display which is actually based on a thin-film transistor (TFT) technology. 

Why was the Jaguar XK’s new instrument cluster produced and designed as such? According to Visteon, they designed the instrument cluster as such as to be able to deliver enhanced vehicle information to the driver. Aside from this, they made sure that such an instrument cluster still brought with it superior styling. One of the main features that the cluster has is the large TFT screen which actually allows the XK to differentiate its driver information interface through function, features, and appearance. This instrument cluster also brings and mixes in a minimalist kind of design. It also combines state of the art functionality. 

So what is with the Jaguar XK’s instrument cluster? This cluster actually houses two main round dials in chrome and tube designs. You can find white gauges with green illuminations at each side of the display. The advanced high-resolution display, on the other hand, is based on TFT technology which gives it the capacity to show off 262,144 colors. The high quality 256-color display is split into several zones. This actually allows the driver easy access to information like the vehicle body functionality, the gear selection, cruise control information, as well as tire pressure warning.


