Title: 
New Mazda MX-5 at British International Motor Show

Word Count:
343

Summary:
During the upcoming 2006 British International Motor Show this 18th of July up until the 30th of the same month, the Mazda Motor Corporation would be out to show off to the world its new Mazda MX-5. This would be the very first time for the company to show the world this vehicle.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda MPV parts,Mazdda 6 parts,Mazda parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
During the upcoming 2006 British International Motor Show this 18th of July up until the 30th of the same month, the Mazda Motor Corporation would be out to show off to the world its new Mazda MX-5. This would be the very first time for the company to show the world this vehicle. In fact, this vehicle comes with a power retractable hard top which is one feature that Mazda is very proud of. Aside from this vehicle, Mazda would also be revealing to the public the Mazda BT-50 which is a one-ton pickup truck. 
	
The Mazda MX-5 that would be shown off during this auto show would be having the power retractable hard top roof which is quite unique. This would be quite an addition to this third generation of Mazda MX-5s. Mazda claims that this new vehicle would be offering a unified sense of driving exhilaration. In fact, it is a lightweight sports car that offers diversity and distinctiveness in all features that it offers. 

Mazda says that this vehicle’s essence is known as the “Jinba Ittai” which actually means “rider and horse as one”. It simply means that with this new Mazda MX-5, there would be an emotional connection between the driver and his horse which is the vehicle itself. Do not be confused though if you hear the names Mazda MX-5 Roadster Coupe, Mazda Roaster Power Retractable Hard Top, and Mazda MX-5 (Miata) Power Retractable Hard Top. These names all refer to the Mazda MX-5 and these are used in Europe, Japan, and North America, in that order. 

As per the new one-ton Mazda BT-50 truck, this heavy truck comes with a powerful 2.5 liter Direct Injection Turbo Diesel engine which is quite new to the company. In fact, it is during this year’s British International Motor Show that such a diesel engine would be featured and shown off the European public. However, this engine that the Mazda BT-50 truck has already been part of the Bangkok Motor Show just last March where it made its world debut.


