Title: 
Nissan Produces Its 100 Millionth Vehicle

Word Count:
330

Summary:
Nissan has now produced its 100 millionth vehicle last June. This Japanese auto maker has also made sure that production of vehicles does not end with its 100 millionth vehicle.


Keywords:
auto parts,Nissan,Nissan auto parts,Nissan accessories


Article Body:
The year 2006 is a time for celebration for Nissan Motor Company, Ltd. Why, you may ask? Let us just say that just recently, this auto maker has just reached a new milestone in its existence. 

Nissan has now produced its 100 millionth vehicle last June. Just imagine the whole range of vehicles that this car maker has been able to create and bring out to the streets and roads. So far, the company has been able to manufacture some 76,640,000 units of Nissan cars and vehicles in its home country which is Japan. The rest of the lot has been created in its various manufacturing plants scattered all around the globe. 

The production of Nissan does not only stop at creating cars and vehicles. The company is also responsible for manufacturing the best Nissan auto parts made just for the use of their vehicles. This Japanese auto maker has also made sure that production of vehicles does not end with its 100 millionth vehicle. For at the end of June, which is also the month wherein the 100 millionth Nissan vehicle was completed, the company was able to make a total of 100,140,000 units of Nissan cars. 

The Nissan Motor Company, Limited is actually a brand of vehicles which has been sent out to the auto market under a different name years before. Datsun was the brand that these vehicles held. Based in Tokyo, Japan, the company is now opting towards bringing more of its vehicles to the automotive industry. In fact, it is now considered as one of Asia’s top three car manufacturers. 

Tadao Takahashi, the executive vice president for the company’s manufacturing team, is very much elated by the way things are going for the company. He even thanks people who have been and are still part of the company, “On behalf of Nissan, I would like to thank all our employees and customers around the world for their support without whom this important milestone would not have been possible.” 
</p>


