Title: 
Nissan 350 Z Blends in Performance, Technology and Design in One Package

Word Count:
492

Summary:
The Nissan 350 Z sports car has been unchanged only until this year. Made available in five trims models, the Nissan 350 Z is yet another vehicle with a wide range of choices. The trim levels and models are the 350Z, the Enthusiast, the Touring, the Track, and the Grand Touring.


Keywords:
auto parts,Nissan,genuine Nissan parts,performance parts,Nissan accessories


Article Body:
Performance. Technology. Design. These are what the Nissan 350 Z is all about. And yes, all those are found in just one vehicle. For power, the Nissan 350 Z has a 3.5 liter VQ engine that could produce some 300 units of horsepower. It also gets help from a six speed close ratio short throw manual transmission, along with an advanced multi-link suspension with is an engineering used for race cars. If you like relaxing during drives, then the Nissan 350 Z has a Boss® audio system and a Nissan Navigation System to help you throughout your journey. 

In addition, Same Day Car Parts makes sure that it has a superior stock of all Nissan replacement parts and accessories in case its worldwide customers need them to preserve their Nisan vehicles’ agility and performance. Like the superior parts that go into every Nissan vehicle, Same Day Car Parts maintain the tradition of bringing in only the highest quality Nissan parts. Same Day Car Parts’ online store has the most up to date and comprehensive selection of genuine Nissan parts, replacement parts, performance parts, and accessories which are offered at great discount prices. Dedication to excellence and superior workmanship surely goes into every Nissan part at Same Day Car Parts. 

The Nissan 350 Z sports car has been unchanged only until this year. It was introduced in August of the year 2002 and it continuously carried the features up until today. As per the changes done, the list includes a revised front end appearance, an enhanced interior, new LED tail lights, a new vehicle speed sensitive power steering system, a refined optional navigation system, as well as RAYS super lightweight 18 inch front and 19 inch rear forged alloy wheels, each with five spokes. A version of the Nissan 350 Z which is the Grand Touring Coupe model comes with 18 and 19 inch wheels, Brembo brakes, front spoilers, rear spoilers, and the Vehicle Dynamic Control, or VDC, system. This vehicle is powered by a 3.5 liter DOHC V6 engine that could produce 300 horsepower units. This is assisted by a 6 speed manual transmission system. The color choices for the Nissan 350 Z’s exterior include Silver Alloy, Magnetic Black, and I
Interlagos Fire. 

Made available in five trims models, the Nissan 350 Z is yet another vehicle with a wide range of choices. The trim levels and models are the 350Z, the Enthusiast, the Touring, the Track, and the Grand Touring. For all these, the standard features include the 3.5 liter DOHC V6 engine, an independent multi-link suspension with front and rear stabilizer bars, a strut tower bar, power windows, a 3-bay gauge cluster, bi-xenon headlights, and dual front air bags among many others. Options given for the Nissan 350 Z include a DVD based navigation system, a satellite radio, side and curtain side impact supplemental air bags, the HomeLink Universal Transceiver, a cruise control system, the Traction Control System (TCS), aluminum pedals, an illuminated steering wheel with audio controls, an auto dimming rearview mirror, and side supplemental air bags.


