Title: 
No Ifs, No Buts: The 2006 Corolla

Word Count:
798

Summary:
The harmonious lines of the 2007 Toyota Corolla communicates the notion that it is possible to live large on a small budget. The newly re-designed Corolla has a precisely engineered and ergonomically designed interior cabin that’s anything but cheap. The speedometer and rpm dials feature large font that is easy to read. The cabin also features formfitting, supportive seats both front and rear, with plenty of head room so you can continue to smile those beatific smiles mile after mile.


Keywords:
new carolla quote, toyota carolla, toyota corolla quote, new car, new car quote, new cars, quote new cars, new car price


Article Body:
They are an everyday occurrence on our streets, but the latest Toyota Corolla is aiming to be far from common. Since its introduction in 1968, the Corolla has gone through eight re-incarnations. This, the ninth, is certainly the most likable. Based on its reputation for excellent quality, reliability, and resale demand – the 2006 Corolla offers good value at its price point of $13,780 to $17,555. However, the marketplace is now filled with excellent competitors including the Ford Focus, Honda Civic, Mazda 3, and the Nissan Sentra. As a result Toyota has been hard at work improving quality, design, and driver’s appeal in both its core breadwinner such at the 2006 Corolla and the new Camry models. Bold new designs are laudable, but not if they fails to persuade mainstream buyers to reach for their wallets. The 2006 Corolla sedan is good enough to convince buyers to purchase the car out of desire rather than necessity. 

Back in the early ‘90s, I test drove a Corolla. So it was great opportunity to drive the newest car. Gone are the bad styling cues, the sci-fi exhaust, and two-tone body works, but retained are the car’s great ride and handling, the everyday usability which is the tangible Toyota factor. It all adds up to a practical, fun drive. Walk around the car, you can’t help but notice the harmonious stylistic hints of the more expensive Lexus IS 300 sedan. The 2006 Corolla’s integrated front bumpers feature the dignified dual-bulb headlights giving it a sporty character, and the dapper side rockers give the car a sneaker-like feel. The tail of the car is consistent with the clean, crisp shape found in the front. This is certainly a more youthful car than its predecessor, but one that says “functional adult,” with its very own subtly refined elegance. Additionally, the 2006 Corolla boasts excellent aerodynamics and fuel efficiency for a non-hybrid, 32 mpg city; 40 mpg highway.

The harmonious interior of the 2006 Corolla communicates the notion that it is possible to live large on a small budget. The perfectly engineered and ergonomically designed interior is anything but cheap. The large three-spoke steering wheel is sporty and elegant to grip. The speedometer and rpm dials feature large font that is easy to read. The clean lines of the center console are well configured to house the radio and climate control buttons. The cabin also features formfitting, supportive seats both front and rear, with plenty of head room. You will not feel claustrophobic in this car seated in either the back or front seats. The driving position may be a bit awkward at first, but the crispness of the cabin easily makes up for it. 

Money may not buy happiness, but the 2006 Corolla sedan will surely keep you smiling with your choice of four inside trims, and two efficient engines. The 1.8-liter, four-cylinder, 126 horsepower is standard in CE, LE, and S trims. Featuring the VVT-I® race technology, the engine peaks at 6000 rpm generating a torque of 122 pound-feet at 4200 rpm, and the 1.8-liter DOHC 16-valve antes up 170 horsepower at 7600 rpm, with 125 pound-feet of torque available at 4400 rpm. Put the car in gear you’ll find the handling responsive, the acceleration refined, and a supple ride. The 2006 Corolla is a high quality automobile with an uncompromising faith not uncommon to a more expensive automobile.

The 2006 Corolla is one of the safest cars on the road. Even in the 40 mph frontal offset collision test by the IIHS, the car received a “good” rating (the highest possible) and was named the “best pick” among smaller cars. It has also earned the full five-stars in NHTSA’s crash test ratings, and comes equipped with multi-stage front airbags that deploy depending on severity of impact. However, side curtain airbags are still an option, and we recommend you add them to complement the car’s high safety record. Stability control is also optional and may be good to have in wet or snowy areas. Combining safety with elegance, the 2006 Toyota Corolla gives you inner beauty as well as external refinements you can be proud of.  

The 2006 Toyota Corolla is a subtly refined modern sedan you can happily fall in love with. Since its introduction in 1968, the Corolla has gone through eight re-incarnations. This, the ninth, is certainly the most likable. Based on its reputation for excellent quality, reliability and desirable resale demand, the 2006 Corolla offers a good value in its class. Now isn’t that something to write home about? 


As soon as a machine becomes more complicated than, say a mousetrap, it acquires character. The more components a system contains, the greater the scope for variable behavior. The result of uncompromised dedication to design and engineering has made the 2006 Toyota Corolla more intelligent to suit a modern lifestyle. The car contains many new components that enhance the joy of living.


