Title: 
Oh How I Love My Car

Word Count:
501

Summary:
Of all of the things I own, my car would have to be on the top of my list of what I am most grateful for. I literally cannot imagine my life without my car. Can you imagine your life without a car?

The obvious reason that I love my car so much is because of the convenience it brings to my life. If it were not for my car, how would I get to all of the events and activities of the week let alone to the grocery store? Every member of my family is involved in a variety of acti...


Keywords:
car


Article Body:
Of all of the things I own, my car would have to be on the top of my list of what I am most grateful for. I literally cannot imagine my life without my car. Can you imagine your life without a car?

The obvious reason that I love my car so much is because of the convenience it brings to my life. If it were not for my car, how would I get to all of the events and activities of the week let alone to the grocery store? Every member of my family is involved in a variety of activities that they love being part of. Not having a car to get them to and from their favorite events would certainly be a challenge. I love my car because if I forget an item at the store I can simply turn around and go purchase it. If I were relying on public transportation or a friend with a car I would have much less freedom to do what I want.

I love allowing my family members to do things they love. I love watching my young daughters practice ballet or take swim lessons. My sons enjoy participating in flag football and in basketball after school. My husband plays in a city wide soccer league and I enjoy getting together with friends to scrapbook our families latest memories. Our car is the single thing that makes it possible for our lives to be rich and full. I cannot imagine forcing my kids or my husband to stay home all the time and find ways to entertain themselves. My car has brought an incredible richness to each of our lives.

Another thing I love having about a car is that it allows my family to have close friendships with people all across town. While we enjoy time with our close neighbors, some of our best friends happen to live a drive away, and having a car makes it possible to visit them and spend time together. Even my siblings and my parents live too far away to walk to their homes, so I have been very grateful over the years for the ways my car has allowed me to stay connected to my family and friends.

Consider all of the ways your car has benefited your life. If you are anything like me, I take my car for granted. I do not take care of it properly and then I get frustrated when my car doesn't run perfectly. In the past couple of years I have started getting the car in for regular oil changes, I have committed to keeping the inside and the outside cleaner, and I take it to a mechanic for a regular tune up. I figure that for all the great things my car does for me, keeping it cared for is the least I can do for my car.

If you love your car as much as I do, get it cleaned or tuned up today.


