Title: 
Opening Up the Volvo 740

Word Count:
541

Summary:
The Volvo 740 belongs to the Volvo 700 series. It is a range of rear wheel drive cars that was built and manufactured in the 1980s and the 1990s. Compared to its sibling, the Volvo 760, the Volvo 740 content less options. However, it was like a breath of fresh air for it was a midsize car that offered more style, performance as well as luxury compared to its mother company’s other creations.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo 740 parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Volvo has been commented to be the disposable vehicle. It is for the very reason that if the Volvo car encounters a mishap, crash, accident, or collision, the vehicle could get totally wrecked. However, the very important thing is that inside the vehicle, the passengers and the driver remain unharmed. That is because Volvo sees to it that their vehicles are able to provide and support safety. This very reason has attached itself to Volvo’s reputation. And that makes Volvo vehicles stand out from the rest. 

Today, Volvo is one of the leading suppliers and manufacturers of transportation solutions for commercial use. Excellence in their products is certainly not overlooked. The company continues to pledge and provide their followers and enthusiasts the best possible automotive solutions to automobile problems. 

One of the vehicles that has been sold and marketed under the Volvo brand is the Volvo 740. The Volvo 740 belongs to the Volvo 700 series. It is a range of rear wheel drive cars that was built and manufactured in the 1980s and the 1990s. This series was specially styled and designed so as to tickle and hold the interest of the American buyers. By doing such, the company, Volvo, was able then to expand its market and reach the United States. The 700 series made its public debut in 1983. This series held more rounded corners on its body as well as a somewhat better and more comfortable interior. 

In the United States, the Volvo 740 made its way to the market as a 1985 model. Compared to its sibling, the Volvo 760, the Volvo 740 content less options. However, it was like a breath of fresh air for it was a midsize car that offered more style, performance as well as luxury compared to its mother company’s other creations. It made its public debut holding four doors or five doors. The former was a sedan that was internally referred to as the 744 while the latter was a wagon that was internally known as the 745. This line of vehicles has certainly been crafted well enough to last for decades. Even after its production had ceased in the early 90s, there still are a couple of these vehicles running around the streets. It has been said that the newer Volvo 940 is actually a reskinned Volvo 740. 

The Volvo 740 got its power from either the 986 cc OHC engine with four cylinders, or the 383 cc Turbo Diesel that held six cylinders in line two. It also held an overall length of 478.5 centimeters as well as a wheelbase of 277 centimeters. Transmissions for the Volvo 740 were a choice of a four-speed manual, a four-speed manual with electrical overdrive, a five speed manual, or a four-speed automatic transmission. The vehicle also holds hydraulic and round disc brakes. 

Parts and accessories for Volvo vehicles like Volvo 740 parts are available at Volvo Parts and Used Volvo Parts. Customers and owners can go to their online site and choose which auto parts are compatible for their needs. The advantage of using Volvo parts and accessories is that these are especially designed to work well with all Volvo parts. Volvo Parts and Used Volvo Parts offers car and auto parts which are continuously being improved so as to ensure quality service and performance.
</p>


