Title: 
Pampering Your Car With Luxury

Word Count:
423

Summary:
Just as people enjoy being pampered from time to time, cars are no different.  They work hard every day, are on call 24/7 and they also deserve a little R&R.  The best way to replenish your car and leave it feeling rejuvenated is to start with a complete wash, by hand of course, followed by a rinse and dry.


Keywords:
auto, automotive, car, cars, vehicle, vehicles, accessories, news


Article Body:
Just as people enjoy being pampered from time to time, cars are no different.  They work hard every day, are on call 24/7 and they also deserve a little R&R.  The best way to replenish your car and leave it feeling rejuvenated is to start with a complete wash, by hand of course, followed by a rinse and dry.  Think of this process as an exfoliation to remove all of nature’s unwanted dirt and grime from your car’s surface.

Next, polish your car in order to smooth the paint’s surface and eliminate certain contaminants, such as road salt, pollen or bird droppings.  This will provide your car with the massage that it needs to relieve the stress of everyday life and leave it’s surface all shiny and bright.

The next step to pampering your car involves waxing.  This is an essential step in keeping your car protected from the damaging effects of UV rays and acid rain.  And not to mention, waxing leaves your car with an unbelievable showroom quality shine.  It’s important to get your automobile professionally waxed if it’s within your budget.  Many people think that rain will clean their car but, in actuality, nothing could be further from the truth.  Acid rain, which is common throughout North America, can actually cause erosion.

Once your car is looking great on the outside, it’s time to begin working on the interior.  A thorough vacuuming of the carpet and interior seating can be done with a small handheld vacuum.  In addition, window washing and shampooing will finish up the next phase of pampering your car.

The ideas in this article are ideal if you want to pamper your car for the day.  If you want to pamper it for a lifetime, always be sure to follow the maintenance guidelines and schedule as recommended by the manufacturer.  This information can generally be found in the owner’s manual, which should be located in the glove box.  In addition to being the best way to keep your car operating at it’s peek performance, properly maintaining your car will also ensure that it remains covered under the manufacturer’s warranty should the need arise for it’s service.

Rounding out your car’s luxury treatment is a professional scrubbing of the wheels and the engine.  It’s also a good idea to have the oil and other important areas of the car checked by a professional just to make sure that your car is in premium operating condition.


