Title: 
Pass Your Driving Exam!

Word Count:
517

Summary:
You may know how to drive well, but there are things you can keep in mind that will make your driving test go more smoothly.


Keywords:
pass your driving exam, DMV drive test, ace the drivers test, drivers license exam, new driver safety tools, save a life, prevent more auto accidents


Article Body:
You may know how to drive well, but there are things you can keep in mind that will make your driving test go more smoothly. 

Before you ever leave home, check your turn signals, brake lights and headlights. These will be tested before you ever leave the parking lot for your road test. Make sure you have any paperwork that must be turned in, and take your learner's permit with you. Travel to the testing location with a licensed driver. Getting turned down and rescheduled is not an auspicious beginning to this banner day in your life. 

Get to the testing location on time. Most license bureaus are quite crowded and there are sometimes long waits beyond your appointed time. Bring a book to keep you occupied in the lobby if this happens to you. 

Either leave your cell phone at home or turn it off. The middle of your road test is not a good time to receive a phone call. Try to relax with your examiner. Be friendly, but let him do most of the talking. Remember, he does not know you, and he is about to go into traffic not knowing if you can drive safely or not. He may be as nervous as you are! 

Listen to your examiner carefully. He will not ask you to do any maneuvers you haven't already become familiar with in your driving manual. Hopefully you’ll have studied it and practiced a great deal. If you are unsure what it is he wants you to do, ask for clarification. He would rather you understand his request than have you do something wrong, or dangerous. 

Keep your eyes on the road as much as possible when you are driving. Check your speedometer often but briefly. Do the same with your rear-view mirrors. Your examiner needs to know that you are aware of the traffic around you. This tells him you are prepared to react in case of an accident or unexpected move by another vehicle. 

Brake as evenly as you can. Use your turn signals at all times when making lane changes, or right/left turns. Do what the examiner asks you to do with as much finesse as you can muster. 

Be prepared with the maneuvers many people have trouble with. Practice parallel parking every chance you get until it becomes second nature to you. Three-point turns are also difficult for some. Go over these and anything else that gives you trouble. Remember the rules for three- or four-way stops. Go to a location where you can practice these, but remember to watch out for other drivers. They aren’t as freshly tutored in the rules as you are. 

Stay calm and trust the examiner. If you have practiced your driving sufficiently and you know the rules well, you’ll have no trouble passing the driving portion of your test. Congratulations, new driver! Now go get your picture taken. You won’t like the way it turns out, but that won’t stop you from showing it proudly to your family and friends every chance you get.


