Title: 
Pay as you go car insurance

Word Count:
518

Summary:
of program. What if you car pool to work, or take public transit? You are not using your car very much so why are you paying high premiums. With a pay as you drive auto insurance premiums you would be able to quite literally pay as you go.


Keywords:
premiums, pay, car, using, public, auto insurance, pay drive, drive auto insurance, insurance premiums, work, drive auto, paying, literally, auto, drive, y, go , pool, insurance, program,


Article Body:
You can pay as you talk with a cell phone plan, so why not pay as you drive auto insurance? It sounds like a good idea; but would pay as you drive auto insurance work for you? The idea behind pay as you drive auto insurance is simple. Basically its this- if you do not drive very much, you will not pay high insurance premiums. Advocates for this type of insurance policy think that there are many merits to this type of program. What if you car pool to work, or take public transit? You are not using your car very much so why are you paying high premiums. With a pay as you drive auto insurance premiums you would be able to quite literally pay as you go.
 
Another situation where this plan would be of benefit is that of many retirees who have winter homes in temperate climates, the 'snowbirds' living in Florida or Arizona six months of the year and six months in New York or Toronto for example. Essentially the insurance companies would set an average driving amount for each car type. It could then be broken down into a cents per mile basis. If you wanted to us the pay as you drive auto insurance system you could purchase a set number of miles and you would be covered for insurance during this period.
 
Pay as you drive auto insurance is an excellent idea for those individuals who do not use their car very much or try to find cost saving methods or environment saving alternatives. Currently this type of program is not yet available, but there are supporters in many states who are hoping to change that soon. Groups including Environmental Defense, the Conservation Law Foundation and even the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency are working to organize a national cooperative that would work with insurance companies to offer deep discounts for low-mileage drivers; halfway a step toward PAYD (Pay As You Drive) insurance. 

General Motors and On-Star Offers PAYD Rates. In mid-2004 General Motors Acceptance Corporation (GMAC) Insurance began offering mileage-based discounts to OnStar subscribers located in some states. The OnStar system reports a vehicle's odometer readings at the beginning and end of the policy term to verify mileage. Motorist who drive less than specified annual mileage can receive insurance premium discounts of up to 40%. PAYD programs are also currently available in Israel, South Africa and Holland. PAYD is gaining momentum, and will be coming to your area soon.

But will it ever arrive in the biggest Car Insurance market, the UK?
There has been a lot of debate and forwarded working concepts but non yet approved. Discussions have been put in place and considerations made but for as far as the UK drivers are concerned, that is as far as it has gone. Perhaps the industry has too much to lose with this new money saving concept so it will be put off for a while, but as pressure and country’s  evolve into the new scheme it would be irrational for the UK to stay behind, fingers crossed peps.


