Title: 
Performance Enhancers For Your Car

Word Count:
535

Summary:
Tired of your car being outperformed by the compact down the street? Get these four parts and your car will have room to vroom!


Keywords:
K&N, K&N air filters, cold air intake, Bosal, Borla, horsepower, acceleration, performance parts, GM


Article Body:
Are you a tuner? A true tuner that is…or, are you a rice boy?  Yeah, you know what I mean. Serious tuners bring out the power in their cars while rice boys slap on every imaginable part to make their car look like a racer when in fact they are not. So, what does it take to bring out the power in your engine? Not a whole lot! Let’s examine some helpful performance enhancing parts for your vehicle to give it a truly tuned edge.

Sorry for the pejorative term. Enhancing one’s car is a very personal thing and no everyone’s tastes vary. Still, some enhancements add little to the car’s value and can, in fact, take away from its performance. So, here are a few things you can do to add some zap to your engine:

<b>Go Green</b> -- Yep. Environmentally sound air filters are where it’s at. For between 40 and 65 bucks you can get the last air filter your car will ever need. Reusable, green air filters like those made by K&N bring out the performance in your car. Made of cotton gauze material, performance air filters increase acceleration and power as it provides excellent filtration. You’ll never have to buy another air filter again! 

<b>Chips ‘n Tuners</b> -- Get the most out of your engine’s performance by swapping out the power chip that came with your car for one that is truly enhanced. Jet Chips can go a long way to tune your car while a Hypertech tuner can do the same thing. With the latter product, you simply plug the device into your car’s under dash diagnostic connector and follow the instructions on the unit to raise performance. Later, if you want, you can detune your car quickly. Both products are street legal in all fifty U.S. states and will not void new car warranties.

<b>Cold Air Intake</b> -- Installing this product will allow your engine to “eat” the air that it wants to eat. Cold air is thicker and denser and just what your engine needs to perform optimally. Install a cold air intake and your car will be “tuned” to accelerate and perform with much more freedom. You’ll like the improvement in looks too as cold air intakes are a real “stand out” in any car’s engine bay. Oh, yeah, get a load of its cool intake sound too!

<b>Amazing Exhaust Systems</b> -- A crowd favorite are some of the performance exhaust systems on the market. Borla, for one, offers cat-back exhaust systems and headers made of aircraft durable A-304 stainless steel. This product will help free up your engine’s performance resulting in horsepower gains from 5-15%! Yeah, you’ll have a real edge on the road now! Check out the cool exhaust sound too.

Best of all, all four products I mentioned not only give your car more power, but they will help to increase fuel mileage. That’s right a poorly performing engine actually acts as a drain on fuel economy, so you are actually helping to jack up fuel mileage by installing parts that really can make a difference!


