Title: 
Police Auctions- Caught, cleaned and sold

Word Count:
498

Summary:
Police Auctions are not places where one goes to buy a cop; it is where you go to purchase cars that have been confiscated by the police. Many people don't realize it, but police have within their custody hundred of cars, trucks and other vehicles that are towed in almost everyday. And in most cases, since no one claims them, they simply lie there rotting away. A simple solution that was discovered was to hold police auctions and give a chance to the public to buy the cars at a cheaper price.


Keywords:
Seized cars, Auto auctions,Car Auctions,Federal car Auctions,gov auctions, Police Auctions,Government car auctions, repossessed vehicles, impounded ca


Article Body:
Police Auctions are not places where one goes to buy a cop; it is where you go to purchase cars that have been confiscated by the police. Many people don't realize it, but police have within their custody hundred of cars, trucks and other vehicles that are towed in almost everyday. And in most cases, since no one claims them, they simply lie there rotting away. 

A simple solution that was discovered was to hold police auctions and give a chance to the public to buy the cars at a cheaper price. The local police departments, county zones, and the federal law enforcement agencies along with the state agencies find themselves stuck with a lot of seized, abandoned or lost products. Police forces across United States of America collect all kinds of items and hold auctions for them to be sold on a periodical basis.

Absolutely anything and everything can be found in Police auctions, - from Cars, jewelry, electronic items to boats, and even houses. All of which were used in committing a crime or bought using money earned through illegal ways. What makes these auctions better than other kinds of auctions is that here you can get things at a cheap rate. Cars and other automobiles, if they have been abandoned, are auctioned off for nothing more than a couple of hundred dollars, anywhere from $500 and above.

If you have just got your drivers license and wish to buy a car, but can’t afford a brand new one, you need to visit one of the police auctions to see what is in store. You could spend the money you can afford and drive home a Porsche or a Honda. Not only will it help boost your self-esteem but you would turn heads wherever you go. An easy way of making your dream come true and having something classy and stylish for your first car.

All these police auctions are conducted either at a specified venue or online, depending on the amount of stuff they have accumulated. And anyone who is interested, and aware of this, can participate to try their hand at purchasing a top class car. Most people assume that the cars auctioned here were owned by people with a bad track record and they might end up in trouble. But this is not true, the cars are here because someone could not afford to make their monthly payment or they were bought by a person selling drugs. This does not make the car bad or the person buying it tainted, in fact it is as legal as it can get, since it comes with the relevant documents proving ownership and stating that the car belongs to the new buyer. 

At Police auctions, the only thing you need to cautious off is the amount of money you are ready to bid. The car related worries need to be kept at bay and the interested people  make bids on that dream car to try winning it.


