Title: 
Pontiac Solstice: Edmunds.com’s Most Significant Vehicle of the Year

Word Count:
282

Summary:
The Pontiac Solstice is a creation of General Motors and has been in production starting this year and has bagged an award just recently. It was named the Most Significant Vehicle of the Year for 2006; the award was given by Edmunds.com.


Keywords:
auto parts,Pontiac,GM,Pontiac parts,GM parts,Pontiac accessories,GM accessories


Article Body:
The Pontiac Solstice has bagged an award just recently. It was named the Most Significant Vehicle of the Year for 2006. This award was given by Edmunds.com. Edmunds.com is one of the premier online resources for information about autos and vehicles and other things related to the automotive industry. This award is also part of the fifth annual Edmunds.com Consumers’ Most Wanted vehicle awards. 

Last November, the Pontiac Solstice already received the same award. Now this time around, when the consumers judged vehicles, it again bagged that same title. This exemplary vehicle has gained and took almost half of the consumers’ votes. It was followed by the Honda Civic, and the Chevrolet Corvette. 

According to Karl Brauer, the editor in chief of Edmunds.com, “It’s always interesting to tap into the minds of consumers. These annual awards provide insight into consumers’ collective impressions while the Edmunds.com Forums and our social networking web site CarSpace give glimpses into individual opinions every day of the year.” Brauer also added, “The domestic automakers made some real traction this year among the consumers who voted. Domestic vehicles won twice as many awards as they did last year – a good sign for Chrysler, Ford, and GM.” 

The Pontiac Solstice is a creation of General Motors and has been in production starting this year. It is a sports car and holds only one body style – a roadster that holds two doors. It has been built using the FR Kappa platform and its power comes from a 2.4 liter Ecotec I4 engine. Its competitors include the Nissan 350Z, the Honda S2000, the Mazda MX-5, and the Chrysler Crossfire. This vehicle has been designed by Wayne Cherry.


