Title: 
Porsche Buying Tips - Things You Should Know

Word Count:
646

Summary:
Buying a Porsche may appear challenging, yet to most it is very exciting.  The essential element for purchasing your perfect Porsche is to test drive it and know what you’re thriving for.  These innovative machines are fast and furious and expensive.  Therefore, it is important to recognize that the cars maybe high maintenance.  According to your particular situation, you must also be totally certain about your means to obtain your dream ride.  You have the option to lease or buy the vehicle whether it is new or used.  Remember to weigh your options based on how it would benefit you over the lifetime of the vehicle.


Keywords:
Used Porsche, Automotive Information, Porsche 911, Porsche 944


Article Body:
There are several key Porsche buying tips that you should know.  When you decide to purchase this “must have” vehicle, know the difference between leasing and buying.  Although there are advantages to them both, you must be aware of the distinctive characteristics in order to appropriately make your final decision.  Because each individual exhibit contracting habits and interests, it is necessary to be prepared when obtaining ownership of such nostalgic vehicles.  For instance, if you are one that enjoys driving a new car every 2 to 3 years, it would probably benefit you more to lease.  On the other hand, if you are one that enjoys creating your own customizations or accumulate excessive mileage, you may want to purchase the Porsche. 

Certainly, leasing a Porsche will offer you freedom.  You would have not made any long- term commitments.  You are essentially renting, therefore the total cash expenditure is much less.  Additionally, monthly lease payments are generally less than purchase payments.  Subsequently, you are able to drive a more expensive vehicle, hence the stimulating Porsche.  A vehicle that is usually $500- $600 monthly to buy, may costs $450 monthly to lease.  If you decide to lease a Porsche, you will not be responsible for major repair and/or maintenance issues that inevitably occur as the car ages.  When you lease the car, it will typically be under factory warranty for the duration of the lease.   Furthermore, many lease contracts provide additional provisions that address routine maintenance, such as oil changes.

During the time that you are considering a Porsche, one of the key buying tips that you should know is satisfaction.  You will gain the comfort of knowing that the car will be eventually paid for and the classic will be your free transportation.  More so, once you own the vehicle, you would have built impressive value.  The Porsche does depreciate through the years, yet it will always maintain some value which can be used as a trade- in or sold privately for the car’s current value.  Furthermore, if you purchase the Porsche, you will have full control over mileage.  Contrarily,   the leasing agreement specifies its limitations and also includes penalties for passing the limits.  Buying your Porsche allows you to make any changes to fit your interests that may even increase the value.  Coincidently, buying a Porsche can be beneficial with proper care for at least 8 to 10 years and 100,000- plus miles.

Test driving a Porsche is extremely imperative.  Undoubtedly, you will be attracted by the combination of styling, features, price and image, but all that adds up to be is a potentially beneficial purchase.  A Porsche buying tip is to also test drive the dealership.  Be aware of the Porsche dealership reputation.  Also, be intuitive to your immediate impression of the sales staff.  Upon visiting the dealership, expect to spend at least 20 minutes with the vehicle that you are considering.  When you physically test drive the car, include the freeway as well as rough surface streets.  This test drive is important in that it will determine some major factors to assist with your final decision.  Bottom line, trust your gut feeling.  The more time you spend with the car of your dreams and making your decision, you are sure to bank on riding quality.

Financial options are actually available to you during this process.  It is imperative that you are aware of your budget in order to receive affordable monthly payments.  Most lenders require a 20% down payment which will assist with obtaining low monthly payments, however there are some lenders that don’t require a down payment at all.  Maintenance and repair costs may be kept at a minimum if you were to maintain regular service checkups as required by warranty.  You may even obtain a vehicle service agreement with the Porsche dealer.  Your goal, rather leasing or buying, new or used should be to obtain quality and personal satisfaction


