Title: 
Preview of Select 2007 Automobiles

Word Count:
547

Summary:
2007 is shaping up as an important year for many automakers. GM and Ford have been been hit hard while Asian automakers are thriving. What's in it for you? Read on and I'll tell you what I know!


Keywords:
Suzuki SX-4, Chevrolet Suburban, Ford Sport Trac, Mazda CX-7, Hyundai Entourage, Kia Sedona, Nissan


Article Body:
Many model year 2007 vehicles have already hit new car showrooms starting with several new SUVs built by General Motors. The upcoming model year is shaping up as one likely to be filled with many changes as automakers reshape their line ups and prepare for the coming invasion of cheap imports from China. The choices for consumers have never been better and prices are actually lower for many models, therefore competition is good and you are the winner. Let’s take a look at five vehicles certain to grab much attention as they are released during this year.

<b>Ford Explorer Sport Trac</b> – Based on the Explorer body, the Sport Trac has a wheelbase that is nearly 17 inches longer than the Explorer and a bed made out of composite material. With four doors and a truck bed, the SUV/pick up truck “hybrid” does double duty with plenty of style. Powered by a 4.0L V6, the 4.6L V8 found in the Expedition is also available. You can get the Sport Trac in either 2 of 4 wheel drive.

<b>Mazda CX-7</b> – Mazda jumps in to the crossover craze with its attractive looking CX-7. As a five door hatch/SUV “hybrid” the five passenger CX-7 will be powered by a turbo charged 2.3L I4 engine producing a remarkable 244 h.p. Available in front or all wheel drive, the CX-7 combines the athletic look of a sports car with the look of a curvy SUV. Ford and Lincoln will also get versions of the vehicle.

<b>Suzuki SX-4</b> – One of the lesser known Japanese brands, Suzuki is attempting to get a bigger piece of the pie by introducing new and revised versions of its models to the North American market.  The SX-4, a compact crossover vehicle, is Suzuki’s latest attempt to reach their goals. Available as either a front wheel drive or all wheel drive vehicle, the five door SX-4 is powered by a 2.0L I4 and is aimed squarely at Subaru lovers. It is the opinion of this writer that Suzuki must work on styling first before success can be expected; mostly everything the automaker produces is quite bland.

<b>Chevrolet Suburban</b> – As part of the general’s overhaul of its midsize and large SUVS and trucks, the brawny Suburban debuts with many changes in place. All new sheet metal, displacement on demand engineering, and a remote power rear lift gate, are some of the chief changes with this big SUV. Naturally, in the face of $2 or $3 per gallon gasoline the Suburban presents a thirsty offering for owners. However, if it is a big SUV you need, then the all new Suburban may fill the bill for you.

<b>Hyundai Entourage</b> – Sharing a platform with the Kia Sedona, the Entourage is Hyundai’s first minivan. Unlike the Sedona, only the long wheelbase version will be available. Powered by a 3.8L V6, the engine is mated to a five speed automatic transmission. An important feature with the Entourage is the third row seat which folds flat into the floor.

Yes, the 2007 model year is already here for some models. Prices are very competitive and the latest technology has been included with many vehicles. Shop and save today on a model that is certain to please you!


