Title: 
Pure Performance - Nissan Skyline R34 GTR

Word Count:
405

Summary:
In 1999 the Nissan Skyline R34 GTR came to life, the latest model, and the best GTR yet. Styling is superb with an all new much more aggressive shape; it looks like a car to be reckoned with. The R34 GTR looks and feels like it got the best from both of the R32 and R33 models in one package.


Keywords:
Nissan Skyline, Nissan skyline GTR, automotive


Article Body:
In 1999 the Nissan Skyline R34 GTR came to life, the latest model, and the best GTR yet. Styling is superb with an all new much more aggressive shape; it looks like a car to be reckoned with. The R34 GTR looks and feels like it got the best from both of the R32 and R33 models in one package.

The interior is simple, sporty, and luxurious, with plenty of head and leg room for taller drivers. Seats are comfy for long trips yet still hold you in when cornering hard. Centre gauges have been replaced with a LCD screen. This shows loads of information like, throttle position, boost pressure, torque split, a built in G-meter, and it has a com-port so you can download your trips data onto a laptop.

In an effort to reproduce the handling feel of the much loved R32 GTR the wheel base was shortened b 7.5cm, chassis rigidity was improved by 50 percent, and the suspension was greatly improved. Revised multi-link rear suspension featured at the rear with McPherson struts with an additional link up front. Ten years had passed since the R32 but the same techno wizardry (HICAS and ATTESSA) remains but these features where greatly improved.

The RB26DETT engine still remains but again improvements where made and because of this the engine has become smoother and quieter. The torque curve has improved and remains flatter throughout the rev range, 400nm is achieved at 4,400rpm this has made the engine more flexible. 

Turbo chargers where also revised featuring a dual ball bearing core which reduced lag and improved the power band. The gear box was replaced by a 6 speed getrag which features, shorter ratios, and a shorter throws. Acceleration times have improved, 0-100 is achieved in 4.9 seconds and the 400m sprint in completed in 12.9. 

These refinements make driving the GTR a pleasure with every aspect improved. Steering is responsive and grip is phenomenal making this GTR a true cornering machine. Ride quality is on the firm side but harsh bumps are absorbed well, but this is a sports car after all. 

Nissan certainly got it right with the R34 you get the extra space and luxury that the R33 provided, as well as the race like feel of the R32. Simply put this Nissan Skyline is well hell of a sports car. For more information on I recommend you visit this website. http://nissanskyline.6te.net 

Glenn Munn	
Skyline enthusiast


