Title: 
Range Rover Updated For 2007

Word Count:
334

Summary:
The Range Rover has been known as the world’s most complete luxury sport utility vehicle for years already. And now, as part of the series of updates and upgrades that it received, the Range Rover is yet set to still remain in its position at the top. The lists of changes were done for the 2007 model year Range Rover.


Keywords:
auto parts,Land Rover,Rover Freelander parts,Land Rover body parts,Land Rover parts,Land Rover accessories


Article Body:
The Range Rover has been known as the world’s most complete luxury sport utility vehicle for years already. And now, as part of the series of updates and upgrades that it received, the Range Rover is yet set to still remain in its position at the top. The lists of changes were done for the 2007 model year Range Rover. Included in the changes that the vehicle received included the cabin, its chassis, as well as off road capacities. 

For the 2007 model year version of the Range Rover, this vehicle would be holding as a standard feature the intuitive Terrain Response system which is more known as the TM system. This new system actually gives the driver the chance to select one of the give distinct vehicle settings so as to be able to suit the terrain that the Range Rover is traveling on. So as to be able to take care of the various road conditions, there were also upgrades and optimizations done to the vehicle’s key software and hardware settings that control the powertrain, transmission, braking, stability control system and suspension system. Aside from these, the new Range Rover also holds an optional rear ‘e’ differential. The ‘e’ actually stands for electronic and it now available as a standard feature on the Supercharged versions of the Range Rover. 

Richard Beattie, the Executive Vice President of Land Rover North America’s Sales and Marketing department, states, “To maintain the Range Rover’s outstanding reputation, we continuously look at how we can update and upgrade the vehicle. We have further refined Range Rover substantial equipment levels to meet the requirements of both new and existing Range Rover customers.” 

As per the interior of the vehicle, a simple look at the cabin would give you the impression that, indeed, upgrades and changes were made. The whole cabin has been given more space. And to add to storage space, the vehicle now holds an electronically-released twin glove box. The airbag system has also been updated.


