Title: 
Removing A Steering Wheel Yourself

Word Count:
376

Summary:
Steering wheels are essential in a vehicle. Start by pointing your car’s wheels straight ahead. Then disconnect the battery before you remove the old wheel. Then, remove the horn mechanism by pressing down on the horn cap and then turn. You will be removing it from its plastic housing. Now, it is time to remove the shaft-nut retainer clip if it is present.


Keywords:
auto parts,Rover parts,Rover accessories,steering wheels,fuel injection parts


Article Body:
Steering wheels are essential in a vehicle. However, there are some drivers that do not find their steering wheels good enough for their vehicles so what they do is they try to purchase another one. If you are one of these drivers and you would like to remove the old one, you actually could do this thing yourself. Although you have to have patience for the process takes some time to do. 

Make sure that before you start on your task of removing your old steering wheel, you should have a screwdriver, a pair of pliers, and a puller. You will be needing these. 

Start by pointing your car’s wheels straight ahead. Then disconnect the battery before you remove the old wheel. Then, remove the horn mechanism by pressing down on the horn cap and then turn. After that, remove the emblem cap from its snapped-in position. You do this by grabbing it and then pulling it towards you. If there are screws attaching it to the vehicle, use your screwdriver.

After this step is done, it is now time to remove the horn wire or the spring-loaded metal plunger. You will be removing it from its plastic housing. Start by pulling straight out on the metal plunger. Or you can also try to remove it by twisting the plastic sleeve to the left and then pull it out. When you have done so, cut off the wire on the plastic sleeve and keep the sleeve. You would be needing this when you put in a new steering wheel.  

Now, it is time to remove the shaft-nut retainer clip if it is present. But make sure that you also keep it for you still would be using it. The shaft nut should be removed for it holds the steering wheel to the shaft. When you have removed these, mark the shaft at the twelve o’clock position. This would allow you to know where to put in the top of your new wheel. 

Insert now a conventional puller into the two tapped holes. You will find these two holes at the hub of your steering wheel. When you have put in the puller, pull off the steering shaft. You can now remove your steering wheel.


