Title: 
Removing Your Car Tint

Word Count:
411

Summary:
Your car may have had its tint for so long that you have already gotten tired of it. Or, maybe, your car’s tint is already peeling off the edges that you would rather have everything taken off rather than let it stay that way.


Keywords:
auto parts,car tint,auto accessories,Dodge parts,Pontiac parts


Article Body:
Your car may have had its tint for so long that you have already gotten tired of it. Or, maybe, your car’s tint is already peeling off the edges that you would rather have everything taken off rather than let it stay that way. Try to bring your car to a professional and have them remove the tint of your car. More often than not, they would ask you to pay a whole lot of money than you expected to. 

In fact, the prices could range from around $50 up to a whooping $100. Mainly, they claim that removing the car tint would be a difficult task at hand, keeping in mind that they would also be making sure that your car windows do not get any scratches. However, by just knowing what type of materials to use as well as how to do it, you might as well be on your way to saving a lot of money to spend on other non-trivial matter. 

The process is easy. You need a single-edged razor, a clean rag, and an all-purpose spray cleaner. You may also try to use other solvents that could work well on removing any kind of adhesive but is gentle on your car window and paint. When you have all these handy, start the process by grabbing a corner of the film of the window tint using a razor. Remember that the car tint is not something painted on the glass of your window. It is a specially designed thin film applied to your window. 

When you have successfully taken hold of a corner of the film, pull the film off. When the film is already out, spray the cleaner on the glass. Then, put back the film on the window and let it stay there for around 15 minutes to 20 minutes. After that, remove the film again. Spray on more cleaner on the glass and use the razor to scrape off any film residue as well as any adhesives. When you have done so, wipe the glass clean using your rag. 

On the other hand, if you think that this is not your kind of work and you just feel like you might be damaging your window, you can check with a local maintenance shop which offers such a service of removing window tints. However, just keep in mind that you would have to shed out quite an amount of money for a simple task as removing tint film.


