Title: 
Revamping the Fiesta

Word Count:
497

Summary:
The 2006 Ford Fiesta would be soon cruising down the streets starting this year 2006. Ford Motor Company asserts that “with their bold exteriors and more colour choices than ever before, the new Fiesta range injects passion into every journey.”


Keywords:
auto parts,ford parts,ford fiesta parts


Article Body:
The 2006 Ford Fiesta would be soon cruising down the streets starting this year 2006. Ford Motor Company asserts that “with their bold exteriors and more colour choices than ever before, the new Fiesta range injects passion into every journey.” An impressive in-car technology, a range of advanced engines, and Ford’s advanced safety system has been added in to give drivers renewed confidence. 

This new vehicle from Ford features striking new exterior styling with a fresh, wide-eyed look all due to its distinctive new headlamps. Its interior has a wide choice of stylish new trims and fabrics giving off a spacious, sophisticated feel for its cabin. Other features had been added in that includes Bluetooth, a satellite navigation control, and voice control to perfect the whole new 2006 Ford Fiesta. 

This vehicle is a mid-class supermini car that was designed by the Ford Motor Company in Europe, and was also manufactured and crafted in other countries like Brazil, Mexico, China, India, and South Africa. It is marketed worldwide with Japan and Australia in the list. Considered to be one of Ford’s most successful cars, it has over ten million units sold in six distinct generations since its production in 1976 and continues up to the present. 

Its history goes back to the early 1970s when demand from consumers for small cars were on the rise, and Ford’s strong competitors were launching cars like the Fiat 127 and the Renault 5. The demand has also been affected because of the effects of the energy crisis in the year 1973. The company had to craft a small car to compete in the market. The “Bobcat”, a prototype and project of the company, had been the basis for Ford’s new car which was the Fiesta. The Ford Fiesta was then introduced to the world in the year 1975. This vehicle has also earned a feather in its cap when it was pronounced as Australia’s Best Small Car winner in 2004. 

This new 2006 Ford Fiesta features a whole new face plus a complete new interior. The exterior has been done in with prominent changes to its front and rear ends. The Fiesta’s nose will feature new headlights and a redesigned grilled to reflect that of the new Focus. The rear also sports revised tail lights and a new bumper as well. Side skirts and new alloy wheels complete the changes. Changes in the interior have been of the most drastic. The architecture reflects that of the Focus, with its fit and finish being top notch. 

Ford has no intentions of being outpaced in this hurried race for automobile innovations and advances. With all the breakthroughs in the industry, <a href="http://www.premiumcarparts.com/"target=_blank"class="navigation">Ford Parts and Performance Parts</a> stands by its commitment of delivering excellently engineered <a href="http://www.premiumcarparts.com/ford-fiesta-parts.html"target=_blank"class="navigation">Ford Fiesta parts</a>, and replacement auto parts to along with Ford’s efforts of sustained production of quality vehicles.


