Title: 
Saab 9-2x: Sporty and Dynamic and Targeted Towards the Young

Word Count:
425

Summary:
Saab 9-2x is a compact car and Saab markets this vehicle as the kind of vehicle that is sporty, smart and very responsive. A title that it holds is the Best Compact Car as compared to any car in its class.


Keywords:
auto parts,Saab 9-2x,Saab parts,Saab accessories,starters,floor panel


Article Body:
Manufactured as a station wagon, the Saab 9-2x is a vehicle that has been in production since the year 2005, although rumor has it that come next year, 2007, its production would be entirely halted. This vehicle has been manufactured by the Fuji Heavy Industries, and it runs under the brand Saab which is under the much larger umbrella of General Motors. It is a compact car and Saab markets this vehicle as the kind of vehicle that is sporty, smart and very responsive. A title that it holds is the Best Compact Car as compared to any car in its class. 

The Saab 9-2x has been made available with a couple of color choices for its exterior. The list includes Brilliant Red, Nordic Gray Metallic, Arctic Silver Metallic, Midnight Black Metallic, Desert Silver Metallic, and Deep Blue Metallic. The cars that this vehicle holds as competition include the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution and the Volkswagen R32. Its components are shared with the Subaru Impreza WRX. This station wagon holds four doors. 

This vehicle is actually assembled in Japan. Although it has been said that its parts are shared with the Subaru Impreza WRX, the Saab 9-2x comes with a modified body, and suspension system. Its interior is also modified. The company has actually renamed this vehicle as the Saab 92x although the name Saab 9-2x has caught the attention of the market so much so that the company continually uses the latter name more. The Saab 9-2x is known as a vehicle that has a distinct design that is very European. Along with that, this station wagon boasts of powerful engines and a standard all wheel drive system. 

According to Peter Augustsson, the president and chief executive officer of Saab, “The Saab 9-2x is the ideal addition to our line up. Like the recently launched Saab 9-3 models, it is extremely dynamic and is a car that you want to drive. Additionally, its price point will attract some new, young, enthusiastic customers to Saab.” Debra Kelly-Ennis, the president for Saab Cars in the USA adds, “The Saab 9-2x will help us continue our extremely strong momentum. We are definitely on a roll. The 9-3 Sport Sedan is more than doubling the sales of its predecessor.”

The success of the Saab 9-2x is partly due to its strong and dynamic character that it exudes. And the culprit behind this is the design that it holds. The company has crafted the vehicle to be such so as to bring in the attention of the young and enthusiastic part of the segment.


