Title: 
Saturn Vue Green Line Ready For 2007

Word Count:
304

Summary:
The year 2006 still has not yet ended but General Motor Corporation’s Saturn brand of automobiles has made sure that the Saturn Vue Green Line would be ready for the auto market come the following.


Keywords:
auto parts,Saturn,Saturn aftermarket parts,Saturn Vue,Saturn accessories


Article Body:
The year 2006 still has not yet ended but General Motor Corporation’s Saturn brand of automobiles has made sure that the Saturn Vue Green Line would be ready for the auto market come the following. The company is very much proud of this vehicle. After all, it is a couple of thousands cheaper than some of the most known and popular hybrids in the market. 

Since 2002, the Saturn Vue line of vehicles has already been produced and it has been created as a compact crossover sport utility vehicle entrant. And part of this line of vehicle models, the Saturn Vue Green Line was born. You can find all Saturn Vue vehicles as a wagon that holds four doors. And for the very first time this year, the public was introduced to the Saturn Vue Green Line. And what made the Green Line different from its parent model was that it was more inclined towards environment friendliness. 

Saturn Vue’s Green Line has been created with a belt alternator starter system or the BAS system. This is simply a large electric motor with special bearings and parts used. But for the rest of the Saturn Vue Green Line, Saturn aftermarket parts would surely fit it. What the BAS system does is it stops the engine automatically when the vehicle comes to a stop. However, when the vehicle starts moving again, the BAS system starts the engine up again. 

According to statistics from the Saturn Vue Green Line’s creator and manufacturer, an owner of this SUV would surely be able to save an average of fifteen per cent on his current savings on gas and fuel. And consumers in the market scouting for a new SUV would surely love this vehicle for it would cost much lower than other hybrid SUVs offered by other automakers.


