Title: 
Saturn Relay, Not Just another Van

Word Count:
448

Summary:
The Saturn Relay is another vehicle that is running under the great big umbrella of General Motors, one of the largest automobile manufacturers in the world, and comes from the corporation’s Saturn division. This vehicle, the Saturn Relay has been in production since last year, 2005, and is still being produced presently.


Keywords:
auto parts,Saturn parts,Saturn accessories,auto body parts,body kits


Article Body:
The Saturn Relay is another vehicle that is running under the great big umbrella of General Motors, one of the largest automobile manufacturers in the world, and comes from the corporation’s Saturn division. This vehicle, the Saturn Relay has been in production since last year, 2005, and is still being produced presently. When this vehicle was introduced, it actually took the spot and the niche which the Oldsmobile Silhouette (also known as the Buick Terraza) left blank. The Saturn Relay is a minivan and has been made available in one body style only which is a van holding four doors. 

The Saturn Relay has been built and mounted on the FF/AWD U body platform. Upon its introduction, it has been equipped with a 3.5 liter LX9 V6 engine. It has been said that its major competition in the world of automobiles include the Chevrolet Uplander, and the Pontiac Montana SV6. Also a competition for this minivan is the Buick GL8 despite the fact that the latter is sold only in China. 

The present version of the Saturn Relay holds a wheelbase of 121.1 inches, has a length of 205 inches, 72 inches for its width, stands 72.1 inches tall, and holds a curb weight of 4426 pounds. The minivan also gives interested parties the chance to choose the type of material for its interior which could be a choice between cloth and leather. The exterior colors’ choices are Forest Green, Black Cherry, Bronzed Pewter, Coastal Gray, Golden Cashmere, Midnight Blue, Polar White, and Silver Pearl. The 2006 Saturn Relay has the capacity to take in seven passengers in its interior. It has also been made available in three trim levels which range from the FWD 2 to the AWD 3. 

A great and secure way to maintain a vehicle is by installing only excellent quality parts purchased from reputable auto parts stores. In the past, looking for trusted parts suppliers takes more time and effort. It is a good thing though for at present, the World Wide Web has made shopping for auto parts and auto parts a lot easier. There are dozens of sites that offer Saturn parts. However, a buyer must be cautious when choosing where to buy Saturn parts. It is best if they stick with a trusted and reputable auto parts store like Car Parts Rush. 

Car Parts Rush has a huge array of Saturn parts and Saturn accessories on its online collection found at its site. Their collection includes Saturn auto body parts, auto parts, body kits, performance parts, and Saturn Vue accessories among many others. These Saturn products are guaranteed to be made from durable and quality material that would maintain and keep your car’s performance and delivery intact.


