Title: 
Save Fuel, Save Money

Word Count:
406

Summary:
The prices of fuel increase dramatically. This trend will going on, because of the depletion of the resources. It is a must to save fuel, what also means to save money.


Keywords:
Save fuel, save gasoline, save petrol, save money, cars, automotive, autos, vehicles, vessels 


Article Body:
The prices of gasonline or petrol increase daily, wherever you live in the world. The price of a barrel of oil has quadrupled since the beginning of the millennium. It went from about $20 a barrel to almost $80 in these days.

The Reason to Save Fuel

The resources of fossil energy deplete. Oil has served as the backbone of the modern society. Gas and coal also have plaid an important role, but oil has prevailed. The book “The Final Energy Crisis” forecasts a dramatic development during the next years.  They expect that the peak of the oil production will be achieved around the end of this decade and that the production will fall, although the demand will increase further. This means higher energy prices. Another source says that the oil reserves will be exhausted in about 43 years and the reserves of natural gas in about 64 years.

No Easy Going Alternatives at Hand

There is a lot of research going on worldwide in the field of solar power and hydrogen power. They will have to substitute oil, gas, coal and uranium in an intermediate term. Photovoltaic, wind power and power from biomass progress quickly. The process of transformation lasts decades. New solutions need time to step fully into the foot prints of oil.

The Urgent Task to Save Fuel

There is an urgent task to save fuel in order to prolong the use of the remaining fossil energies. Saving fuel is inevitable because the cost for fuel will increase further. There might be days of lower prices, but the general tendency is clear: up, up and up again.

Solutions are demanded in order to make the consumption of fuel affordable. Modern and already proven standards of housing construction show that 60% to 80% of the fuel can be saved.

Solutions for Money Saving Consumption Needed

Saving fuel in the field of traffic and transportation still sticks in the beginning. If the wheels have to turn further, fuel saving becomes highest priority. There are cars coming up with low fuel consumption or even bio-ethanol. Millions of used vehicles still are useful and they are driven for many more years. It makes sense, if there is a solution for used and new cars, trucks, motor-bikes etc. To save fuel also means to save money. Fuel Freedom International propagates such a convenient looking solution. This could be one solution among others, e.g. eco-efficient driving. Everything that helps saving fuel should be tested.


