Title: 
SECRETS REVEALED! Nissan GT-R Acceleration Technique

Word Count:
622

Summary:
The production version of the Nissan GT-R debuted at the 2007 Tokyo Motor Show and was launched in the Japanese market December 2007. The U.S. launch is scheduled for June 2008. Europe will be the third market for the GT-R, where it is expected to be launched late 2008.


Keywords:
onKeyDown=textCounter(this.form.f_artkey,this.form.avachars_key,200);


Article Body:
Nissan GT-R – The Secret Revealed
The production version of the Nissan GT-R debuted at the 2007 Tokyo Motor Show and was launched in the Japanese market December 2007. The U.S. launch is scheduled for June 2008. Europe will be the third market for the GT-R, where it is expected to be launched late 2008. Production will be held to about 1,000 cars per month. Sony PlayStation's "Gran Turismo (series)"Gran Turismo creators "Polyphony Digital"Polyphony Digital were involved in the development of the Nissan GT-R by designing the performance car’s multifunction display. This powerful performance automobile was a legend even before production started, thanks in part to this popular car racing video game.
Underground car racing trials from Japan report that the 2009 Nissan GT-R boasts a 0-60 of 3.5 seconds with the aid of launch control, technological wizardry that Nissan has been keeping secret. It has an 11.7-second quarter mile with a 192 mph top speed; a true performance car.  The price, less than $70,000 for the base and Black Edition, makes it a reachable dream for the upper middleclass car racing enthusiast. The larger-displacement 3.8-liter twin-turbo V6 produces approximately 450 horsepower; and makes for exciting car racing on drifting videos.
Activation of the Nissan GT-R's launch control is a matter of configuring the transmission, dynamics control and damping adjustments properly. Then you pin the brake with your left foot and throttle with your right like the technique used to produce burnouts in those monster performance cars of byegone times. The results are somewhat different though. The GT-R‘s computer holds the engine at 4,500 rpm waiting for your foot to let off the brake pedal. When you do the GT-R accelerates faster than virtually any production performance car in the world. It is comparable to the Porsche 911 Turbo which hits 60 mph in 3.4 seconds and blasts through the quarter-mile in 11.6 at 118.5 mph.
Audi S4 Luxury and Performance
Spy photographers spotted the next Audi S4 out for underground testing. Based on the Audi A4 that debuted at the Frankfurt Motor Show, the new S4 promises even more performance than the previous model. While the front bumper remains unchanged a few subtle changes can be seen. Audi's signature chrome side mirrors found on Audi S models are also absent. Compared to the A4, the new S4 has bigger wheels and brakes, new side skirts  and quad-exhaust. Powering the S4 will be a 354 horsepower V8. Mechanically, the S4 is expected to be identical to the S5.The 2008 S4 has a base price of $48,610 which keeps it affordable to the upper middleclass performance enthusiast and it is likely the new S4 will be in the same price range.

It has been reported that the new Audi S4 runs at 11.37 @ 122.43 MPH at the drag strip. Looking more like a luxury car than a racing car, the S4’s performance and power are hard to beat. The Audi S4 will use the S5’s 4.2-litre FSI V8 engine that delivers 354 Hp (compared to 340 Hp of the current S4’s 4.2L V8). Power will be transferred to all wheels via a six-speed manual or automatic gearbox. The new S4 is anticipated to get a slight power boost to keep its rivals including BMW at bay. In usual Audi fashion, the range-topping S-models are equipped with the Quattro four-wheel drive technology.
We can look forward to seeing more of these two exciting automobiles as the U.S. debut gets closer. For the latest underground sports cars auto news and to view the hottest drifting and car racing videos, join the Car Racing community.  GTChannel.com offers professionally produced drifting and car racing video features, underground racing and news, new vehicle tests, motor sports events and car comparison races. GTChannel is a one stop location for breaking car racing news.


