Title: 
Simple tips to improve your gas mileage

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Here are some simple tips you can start using immediately to improve your gas mileage today!


Keywords:
gas mileage enhancer


Article Body:
With gas prices seemingly out of control it’s more important than ever to learn how to improve gas mileage in your vehicles.

There are many simple steps you can take that are free or low cost that at first glance seem silly or even obvious but you would be surprised how many people fail to do them or ignore the warning signs their car is giving them.

Here are some quick tips that you may have missed or forgotten about. Not any single tip will make that big of a difference in increasing your gas mileage but I am a firm believer that every little thing you can do really does add up to getting better gas mileage and helping the environment in the process.


Simple Mileage Improvement Tips:


Use a sunshade to keep your car cool and avoid the use of your air conditioner as much as possible.

Park your car in the shade when it's sunny and warm to keep your car’s interior cooler.

Make sure that your parking brake is fully released before you start driving.

Avoid drive-thru lines at restaurants. Park your car and go inside and order your food as many times it’s a lot quicker anyway. I always laugh to myself as I’m eating while I watch people sitting in their cars still waiting for their food. Just think of how much gas is wasted in those lines!

Use a block heater in winter to pre-warm your car engine. 

Don't ride the brake. Not only will this save gas but will greatly extend the life of your brake pads.

Drive with a smooth, constant speed and avoid “flooring it” when the stoplight turns green.

Maintain the transmission fluid in your car at the proper level for efficient gear shifting.

If there is smoke is coming from your tailpipe make sure that you make an appointment with your mechanic.

Make sure that your cooling system thermostat in your car is working properly.

Avoid air conditioning leaks by constant checkups with your mechanic. FYI - Pre-1994 vehicles use CFCs for cooling.

Immediately fix a slipping transmission.

When you rev up your vehicle's engine it wastes gas. Avoid revving your engine before your turn it off as it really serves no purpose.

If you can’t find a place to buy cheap gas on one day wait if you can until a few days later since the price of gas is constantly changing. Where I live you can almost predict which days prices will rise or fall. Start watching prices in your area to see if you can pick up on any patterns.

Buy your gas at the wholesale clubs, like Costco. You can often save over 10 cents a gallon or more. If you don't like the wholesale clubs get a gas credit card from a major oil company. You'll get a 1% to 5% discount when you buy your gas at their stations.


