Title: 
Skoda Booking Test Drives For New Roomster

Word Count:
299

Summary:
Skoda is booking test drives for its latest model, the Roomster, due to launch this Autumn.

As the new name implies, the Roomster has been designed to accommodate families and luggage in space by utilising a rear seat system called Varioflex, which allows "seemingly endless" seating permutations. With a full load of passengers, the Roomster is able to hold 450 litres of luggage, an amount that increases to a massive 1,780 litres when the seats have been removed.

With of...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Skoda is booking test drives for its latest model, the Roomster, due to launch this Autumn.

As the new name implies, the Roomster has been designed to accommodate families and luggage in space by utilising a rear seat system called Varioflex, which allows "seemingly endless" seating permutations. With a full load of passengers, the Roomster is able to hold 450 litres of luggage, an amount that increases to a massive 1,780 litres when the seats have been removed.

With off the road prices ranging from a low £9,920 for the 1.2 12V Roomster 1 to £14,050 for the Roomster 3, buyers can expect an affordable yet high quality vehicle, if Skoda's list of accolades for previous models is anything to go by.

The car will have class-leading car insurance groupings, with the 1.2-litre model only being banded in group 2E, according to New Car Net.

The frugality of its car insurance premiums will be aided by its economical engine sizes as well a host of safety features that Skoda describes as short only of "being entirely wrapped in cotton wool".

Standard safety features include four airbags, ISOFIX child seat clips, while primary safety is provided by ABS braking.

Further optional extras include head airbags which will protect passengers from side-on or combined impacts.

Also enhancing its class-leading car insurance credentials are the Roomster's security features, with the Roomster 1 model including central locking and an immobiliser. The more expensive Roomster 2 and 3 models feature an alarm and remote central locking capabilities too.

Entertainment for all the family is provided with a four-speaker stereo system with a radio and single CD player with MP3 abilities – as well as a jack input for external MP3 players.

The Skoda Roomster will compete with other roomy family cars in the £10,000 bracket, such as the Citroen Berlingo Multispace, Renault Kangoo and Fiat Doblo.


