Title: 
Some Popular Repower Options for Your Favorite Equipment

Word Count:
546

Summary:
This is an article about the benefits of repowering your existing vehicles.  Repowering is an excellent way to keep your current vehicles, by simply replacing the engine.


Keywords:
Onan Engine, Small Engine, Jacobsen Greens King, Briggs Stratton Motors


Article Body:
Admit it. There are some pieces of equipment in your fleet that you just LIKE. It may be that old Toro Greensmaster that’s served you faithfully for years, or the Toro Sand Pro that everyone calls Ol’ Sandy. Greens equipment hasn’t changed much over the years – whether it’s mowers, rakes, or sand groomers, they were good to go when they started, and they still are. The only thing that HAS changed is the engine.

Today’s engines are quieter, more fuel efficient and far kinder to our environment. That environment part is important. In some states, fuel emissions are a growing concern – so much so that many have instituted regulations for the amount of emissions that can be sent into the air. Others have set up incentive programs that encourage industry to replace diesel and gas-powered equipment with new, lower-emission equipment. So when Ol’ Sandy starts coughing and sputtering when you start her up first thing in the morning, you may be tempted to replace the old girl with something sharp, trim and clean-burning, even though the price tag is staggering.

Don’t replace your engine – repower it.
There is another way, though – a way that lets you keep your old faithfuls and still have a more powerful, cleaner and quieter machine, with a price tag that can be as much as 90% less expensive. That option is to repower rather than replace. 

Repower, according to one government source, means to replace an old engine with a new engine, a used engine, a remanufactured engine, or electric motors, drives, or fuel cells. It only makes sense – after all, why throw the baby out with the bathwater? Ol’ Sandy’s engine may be wearing out, but the rest of her is still going strong. Why junk the old girl when you can give her a new motor and have her running good as new?

A Kohler repower kit includes everything you need to get your dependable Toro equipment working better than new. Depending on where you get the kit, you can replace the original 14 hp motor with an 18 hp motor that works harder, quieter, cleaner and for about 20% the cost of buying new. 

On top of that, you’ll get a full two year warranty on your new engine. And if your state has an Emission Reduction program, you may actually be able to be reimbursed for all or part of the cost of repowering your equipment with a cleaner engine. Check your state’s web site for local information, but in most states around the U.S., if the new engine significantly reduces the NOX emissions, you may qualify for grant money to repower with a new Kohler engine.

A Kohler Engine is an original Toro part.
Repower engines from Kohler are specially designed to replace the OEM engine that your machine came with. In addition to the motor, you’ll get all the fittings, bolts and Toro parts you need to fit the new engine into your Toro machine.

So if your old, dependable sand groomer, rake, lawnmower, tractor or utility vehicles are becoming less and less dependable, take a serious look at the option of replacing the old, tired engine with a spanking new repowered kohler engines. You won’t be sorry.


