Title: 
Something New With The Volvo XC90

Word Count:
326

Summary:
Volvo has just announced that the existing Volvo XC90 line of vehicles would soon be welcoming a new variant. And they would be calling it the Volvo XC90 Sport. The company claims that this is all because of the demand from Volvo XC90 customers.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo parts,Volvo C70 custom parts,Volvo accessories


Article Body:
A quick history on the Volvo XC90. What is it?

The Volvo XC90 is actually a crossover sport utility vehicle (SUV) and it is offered as a luxury SUV and is midsize. It has been created with the Volvo P2 platform that other Volvo vehicles also use. This vehicle is quite a sensation in the auto world in the United States for sales have been very kind to it. The Volvo XC90 has been created and produced by Volvo Car Corporation and the Ford Motor Company since 2003. Considered as its competition in the vehicle market are the BMW X5, Acura MDX, and the Infiniti FX. 

And now, the Volvo has just announced that the existing Volvo XC90 line of vehicles would soon be welcoming a new variant. And they would be calling it the Volvo XC90 Sport. The company claims that this is all because of the demand from Volvo XC90 customers. And this new SUV would be offering consumers a dynamic chassis setting. It also would boast of a newer appearance plus, of course, added specifications. 

According to Karin Falk, who is the head of the Special Vehicles division of Volvo Cars, “We have had numerous requests for a sportier XC90. They are from customers who appreciate the versatility and comfort of an SUV but who also want a bit more driving pleasure. We have developed the Volvo XC90 Sport especially for them, with a dynamic sport chassis, stiffer anti-roll bars, firmer shock absorbers, a sport-tuned, speed dependent steering system, and larger 19 inch wheels.” 

Customers are sure demanding for a newer Volvo XC90 for it cannot be denied that the market’s preferences and lifestyles are changing. And with the sportier Volvo XC90, it sure goes to show that Volvo is listening to what their market is telling them. Stores that sell Volvo C70 custom parts and other Volvo products must be ready to supply replacement parts and accessories for this new Volvo crossover SUV.


