Title: 
Sophisticated Interior, Supreme Off Road Capacity for Hummer H1

Word Count:
496

Summary:
Take a ride inside the Hummer H1. The latest changes have definitely been great for this vehicle. It has become more refined and more upscale. Sophisticated in one way or another. But yet, the vehicle still has the same Hummer H1 effect.


Keywords:
auto parts,Hummer,Hummer H1,Hummer parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Rugged. Functional. Uncompromising. Off road. Confidence. Power. Those are just a few of the adjectives and words that would describe the Hummer H1. Hummer, the brand, claims that this truck could be quite considered to be a whole new vehicle itself. For years, it has undergone various changes to make it bigger, better, and perform greater. 

Michael C. DiGiovanni, the general manager of Hummer, says, “The H1 is what started it all for Hummer. It’s the vehicle that drew the interest of adventurous consumers across the nation, as well as the interest of General Motors. It offers superior off road capabilities rugged enough for Baja and power presence on road. There’s really not another vehicle that is in the H1’s league.”

Take a ride inside the Hummer H1. The latest changes have definitely been great for this vehicle. It has become more refined and more upscale. Sophisticated in one way or another. But yet, the vehicle still has the same Hummer H1 effect. The instrument panel to the cargo area all but shows just how great the Hummer H1 could get regarding its interior. It is more luxurious, more inviting, and definitely could give people a very warm embrace in its spacious interior. 

Jon Albert, the interior designer of Hummer, reacts about the Hummer H1’s new interior. He says, “Although H1 still has all of the capabilities that made it a huge hit with our service men and women, it’s really a new kind of luxury vehicle. In fact, many H1 owners purchase this vehicle in lieu of an exotic vacation or home addition. As such, we felt it was imperative to raise the level of the vehicle’s refinement – bringing it more in line with today’s luxury vehicles.” 

Aside from the interior, the power has also been redone in such a way that the Hummer H1 holds greater amounts of this. It holds a 6.5 liter V8 turbo diesel engine. This machine is very much responsible for producing some 205 units of horsepower at 3400 rpm. To assist the engine in its functions is the GM’s Hydra-Matic 4L80-E that is the electronically controlled four speed automatic transmission system. 

Bill Knapp, the program engineering manager for Hummer, comments, “Customers are always impressed at how nimble H1 is. It has a turning radius of just 26.5 feet. They are also pleasantly surprised at how manageable H1 is and how well it handles, both on and off road. Credit for this belongs to the four wheel, fully independent suspension system, and variable rate heavy-duty coil springs.”

With years of combined experience in selling premium quality Hummer parts and auto parts, Auto Parts Discount has been the trusted and most reliable source of superb quality auto parts and accessories. Interested parties can simply select the premium car parts that they want, fill in their particulars at its secure checkout page, and Auto Parts Discount would be sending their orders right away. 
</p>


