Title: 
Specialty Motor Oil Protects Cars From Ethanol

Word Count:
274

Summary:
Since President Bush announced an agenda for weaning the country from dependency on foreign oil, new ethanol plants have been popping up across the nation.


Keywords:
Specialty Motor Oil Protects Cars From Effects of Ethanol


Article Body:
Since President Bush announced an agenda for weaning the country from dependency on foreign oil, new ethanol plants have been popping up across the nation.

Ethanol demand is rising. If you fuel your car in the U.S., you are putting ethanol in your gas tank because regular gasoline now contains at least 10 percent ethanol. And many gas stations are replacing their mid-grade gasoline with E85, which is 85 percent ethanol.

The strategy seems to be working. According to Bob Dinneen, president of the Renewable Fuels Association, the U.S. has already reduced its fuel consumption considerably.

The increased use of ethanol is good news in terms of energy independence and environmental friendliness. However, its use can form acids and lead to oxidation of internal engine parts if you do not use the right motor oil.

Lubrilon, a specialty automotive oil, was specifically formulated for use with all ethanol-blended fuels. Lubrilon multi-viscosity motor oils are SAE and API licensed for use in all gasoline engines, and are engineered to help combat the acids formed when burning any modern ethanol fuel blend, including gasoline and E85.

While the name Lubrilon may be new to the average consumer, it is recognized by specialty shops, racing fans and aircraft mechanics across the U.S. Throughout its 30-year history, the Lubrilon name has been known for its lubrication products for the automotive, racing and aviation industries. 

The original formula, an engine protection treatment, is still available today. That formula has been determined by university and government testing laboratories to be a one-time, permanent engine protection that virtually eliminates wear. It's the only product of its kind on the market.


