Title: 
Sporting the Kia Sportage

Word Count:
369

Summary:
The Kia Sportage is a compact sport utility vehicle from the Korean automobile maker. And even though it is from another continent, this vehicle still holds the capacity to bring about functionality and purpose into its very existence as well as to the American way of life.


Keywords:
auto parts,Kia,Kia Sportage,Kia parts,Kia accessories,wheel covers,headlights,tail lights 


Article Body:
What is the Kia Sportage, you may ask? The Kia Sportage is a compact sport utility vehicle from the Korean automobile maker. And even though it is from another continent, this vehicle still holds the capacity to bring about functionality and purpose into its very existence as well as to the American way of life.

How has the Kia Sportage been crafted for the American auto market? If you take a closer look at the Kia Sportage, one could see that this vehicle has a very powerful engine that could even beat the engines of those vehicles manufactured by American auto makers. Aside from that, the Kia Sportage has a roomy interior that provides its driver and its passengers optimum comfort as well as special ergonomic help. It also boasts of a simply yet head turning design. That is why for people who drive with Kia Sportage vehicles, they get stares from the people on the streets. If you are thinking about safety, need not worry for this vehicle also comes very well equipped with safety features that includes six air bags. And yes, all these come with a very affordable price. 

Made available in three trim levels that comprise of the LX I4, the LX V6, and the EX V6, the Kia Sportage offers a whole range of choices for people with various lifestyles, needs, and uses for a vehicle. The vehicle also comes with a range of exterior color choices that make up of Black Cherry, Champagne, Natural Olive, Royal Jade Green, Satin Silver, Smart Blue, Smokey Brown, Steel Silver, Volcanic Red, and Clear White. 

The Kia Sportage holds a wide package of features. The list includes 16 inch alloy wheels, a tinted windshield with sunband, a privacy side glass, black outside door handles, dual power black mirrors, dual power heated body color mirrors, fog lamps, multi reflector head lamps, auto head lamps, roof rails, dark gray metallic bumpers, body colored bumpers, body colored body side cladding, black rear garnish, mudguards, a rear spoilers, a black shifter plate, key color interior door handles, chrome interior door handles, a black center fascia, a leather wrapped steering wheel, floor mats, and an air filtration system just to name a few.


