Title: 
Steering Your Car

Word Count:
508

Summary:
The most conventional of the Land Rover steering arrangements is to turn the front wheels using a hand-operated steering wheel. One of the popular Land Rover steering is the rack and pinion steering. It is actually also one of the most common steering types for the whole mechanism is very simple.


Keywords:
auto parts,Land Rover,Land Rover parts,Land Rover steering


Article Body:
<p align="justify">If you think that your Land Rover would run without its steering, then you are very much wrong. The steering is actually an essential part of the whole vehicle and you would not be able to go places and conquer distances without this precious mechanism. 

The steering is actually given to that collection of components, linkages, and bits and pieces of the vehicle that provides the whole Land Rover vehicle to follow a course, track and direction as directed and determined by its driver. That way, the driver is able to keep the vehicle on track and with the Land Rover steering, the driver and the vehicle would be able to go places. The most conventional of the Land Rover steering arrangements is to turn the front wheels using a hand-operated steering wheel. Of course, for the different kinds of vehicles and forms of transportation, there are different systems and arrangements for the whole steering system. 

One of the popular Land Rover steering is the rack and pinion steering. It is actually also one of the most common steering types for the whole mechanism is very simple. There is a rack and pinion gear set that is enclosed in a metal tube with each end of the rack protruding from the tube. The tie rod, which is simply a rod, is what connects each end of the rack. What the rack and pinion gear set does for your Land Rover steering is that it converts the rotational motion of the steering wheel into the linear motion needed to turn the wheels and it also provides a gear reduction making it easier to turn the wheels. 

Used on many trucks and sport utility vehicles at present is the recirculating ball steering. This is the linkage that turns the wheels on a rack and pinion system is changed slightly for this type of steering. Instead of having the bolt directly engaging the threads in the block, all of these threads are filled with ball bearings that recirculate through the gear as it turns, thus the name recirculating ball steering. These balls are there to function to reduce friction and wear in the gear, as well as to reduce slop in the gear. 

The last type of Land Rover steering is the power steering and this is quite a higher technology compared to the rack and pinion mechanism and the recirculating ball mechanism. However, this type of steering is much more expensive on gas for it runs constantly thus wasting horsepower, thus wasting power, and thus translating everything to wasting fuel. 

As zealous as Land Rover in continually upgrading its products to suit every client’s needs, Land Rover Parts and Range Rover Parts is always looking for superior and quality workmanship for its product lines. Only the finest Land Rover auto body parts comprise its stock. Interested parties and Land Rover owners and aficionados can find, compare, and buy Land Rover accessories, auto parts and other car products at Land Rover Parts and Range Rover Parts. </p>


