Title: 
Street Racing Can Be a Thrilling or Deadly Experience

Word Count:
482

Summary:
Street racing is a thrilling ride, full of adventure that involves the most enthusiastic drivers who have a passion for driving cars.  Unfortunately, it can get you killed, put in jail, or even worse, kill an innocent by-stander.  After the facts, many youths still participate in street car racing.


Keywords:
car decals, car graphics, auto decals, auto graphics, race logo, custom, vehicle graphics, auto wraps


Article Body:
Street racing is an extreme adrenaline rush, but dangerous and illegal.  If you are interested in racing, there are many closed tracks that accept a fee for use.  Racing on the street can get you killed, put in jail, or even worse, kill an innocent by-stander.  Imagine the guilt that would be hanging over your head after such an accident.

Many youths still participate in street car racing.  It is a thrilling ride, full of adventure that involves the most enthusiastic drivers who have a passion for driving cars.  Street car racing now takes place in almost every part of the world.

In Street Car Racing the cars run at very high speeds and some of the faster street racing cars can go up to 60mph in just 4 seconds.  So, one can imagine the pace at which these car races take place.  Some of the faster street racing cars have a speed of up to 180mph.  Many cars have neon underbody lighting systems that look amazing when the cars are running at high speeds.  Normally these races take place at nighttime to keep the sport low profile.  Generally most street racing cars have a Nitrous Oxide system that can double or even triple the horse power of the car.  The latest street racing cars are customized with onboard entertainment systems which come with hi-fi audio, video, gaming consoles, and up to 5 monitors.

Any person can participate in illegal street car racing, but the danger and risks are not worth it.  Racing on a closed track can be just as thrilling.  Street racing appeals to people because the only requirements are that the person own a car.  Many people prefer to watch motor sports rather than experience them first person since it involves a lot less risk than driving at such high speeds.  Generally people with a lot of money and time to spare take part in such a sport as this.  It takes a lot of money to customize a car for racing.

Generally young people are more attracted towards this sport than older ones.  People customize their cars and even upgrade for maximum boost with suspension, tires, turbo and nitrous.  But the drivers of illegal races need to be careful of the cops since driving at such high speeds on the streets is very illegal and as mentioned, is extremely dangerous.  If the cops catch you they will likely seize your vehicle and put you in jail.  Some youngsters feel it to be a thrill when actual cops are chasing them, but the thrill goes away fast when the cops catch them; or a telephone pole does. Speeding can cause a loss of someone’s life and is not to be taken lightly.  If one takes conscious efforts to drive within the speed limits on the streets and save racing for closed courses, then the experience can be an absolute thrill.


