Title: 
Style over Power

Word Count:
469

Summary:
The Ford Escort held its head high above competition more because of its style rather than the power and performance that it held since its power and performance was considered to be meager. The Ford Motor Company has certainly made technological and styling wonders with the cars and vehicles that they have crafted over the years.


Keywords:
auto parts,ford parts,Ford Escort parts,clutch parts,exhaust system


Article Body:
The Ford Escort has been roaming the streets of Europe since 1961, however, North American was introduced to this vehicle in 1981. This was crafted basically after inspiration hit over the success of its European model. And if the Ford Escort has been a success in Europe, it has well been another success for the Ford Motor Company, its manufacturer, with its introduction to the US. 

This vehicle shares most of its parts with the European Ford Escort Mk 3. However, this vehicle, the Ford Escort of North America, bears a design and styling that is different from its European counterpart. When it was introduced, Ford made certain that it was available in two body styles that comprised of the 3-door hatchback and the wagon that sported four doors. It was also manufactured in five trim levels that include the base, the L, the GL, the GLX, and the SS. This vehicle come equipped with a small engine that starts with the 1.6 liter 68 hp upon its introduction, up until the 2.0 liter 130 hp engine that was mounted on the final version of the Ford Escort – the Ford Escort ZX2. What was standard was a 4-speed manual transmission, and given as an option was the 3-speed automatic transmission. 

Revolutionary when talking in terms of its style, the Ford Escort was a squared-off modern hatchback with an attractive rear bustle. This was actually developed by Mazda, the Ford Motor Company’s Japanese partner. This vehicle held something unique for even the Princess of Wales and Sarah Ferguson drove Ford Escorts for themselves. Moreover, this vehicle claimed the top spot as the world’s top selling nameplate. 

The Ford Escort held its head high above competition more because of its style rather than the power and performance that it held since its power and performance was considered to be meager. This vehicle proved to its patrons that it was a capable, reliable, and practical car at a relatively affordable price. In Britain and the rest of Europe, the Ford Escort was a legend and eventually became an icon. Come 2002, the entire Ford Escort line up has been replaced by the Ford Focus. Even if this vehicle has come to its end in terms of manufacture, the Ford Escort still is remembered fondly by those who have come to own and use it. Thus, the Ford Escort was considered and held the reputation as a capable and reliable car in every aspect. 

The Ford Motor Company has certainly made technological and styling wonders with the cars and vehicles that they have crafted over the years. Ford Parts and Ford Auto Parts offers the most impressive line up of Ford Escort parts and other Ford auto parts, performance, and replacement parts that includes accessories, brakes, clutch parts, climate control, transmission parts, exhaust system, and service tools among others.


