Title: 
Take Your Ice Off My Windshield

Word Count:
387

Summary:
During icy conditions and snowy weather, one of the first things that could suffer from such cold driving conditions is your car’s windshield. Of course, not only would your windshield be suffering but you would also be experiencing such hard times while driving.


Keywords:
auto parts,windshield,windshield wiper arm, accessories


Article Body:
During icy conditions and snowy weather, one of the first things that could suffer from such cold driving conditions is your car’s windshield. Of course, not only would your windshield be suffering but you would also be experiencing such hard times while driving. 
	
When your car’s windshield gets icy and filled with snow, the very first thing that you would experience is that your vision of the road ahead becomes much lesser. And you know what happens when your vision is obstructed. Your chances of getting and being part of accidents is greater because you cannot see what you are driving into or driving through. 

Clearly, if you still can see through an icy windshield, that is actually considered to be one of the more fortunate things that can happen to you. Because, you see, the most extreme cases of icy windshields actually mean that the driver has no visibility at all of the road ahead, much less of the hood of his car. His view is completely obstructed. He is like looking into a concrete wall and not a window. 

However, you can remedy this situation. Having an icy and snowy windshield is not a reason for you keep your car parked in your garage. You still can use it as long as you know how to de-ice your windshield. It should take no more than a couple of minutes of your time. And after that, you would be well on your way towards a safe drive to your destination. 

To start the whole process, simply turn your car on and start up the defroster. Make sure that you put it to the hottest setting possible. Turn on your car’s air conditioner as you turn on the defroster. Then, you should also set the defroster fan to low setting. 

Get out of your car and start brushing any snow off your car’s windshield. You can start spraying de-icing solution on the windshield. If you think it is much too expensive to buy those that are offered in auto parts stores, you can have your own de-icing solution. Simply take a mixture of half water and half vinegar. And that would be it. Once you have put on the solution, start scraping the ice off your windshield. You can use your ice scraper.


