Title: 
Take Apart the Jaguar XK

Word Count:
404

Summary:
In design, as well as in engineering, the Jaguar XK is considered to be one of the most advanced vehicles in technical terms that Jaguar has under its name. This vehicle’s successor is the Jaguar XK range that was first introduced back in the year 1996. This vehicle comes equipped with a naturally aspirated 4.2 liter Jaguar V8 engine. This engine has the capacity to produce some 300 bhp.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar,Jaguar XK,Jaguar parts,XKr parts,XJ parts


Article Body:
Another sports car joins Jaguar’s line of vehicles. Welcome, the all new Jaguar XK. This new vehicle has been specially crafted and designed so as to be able to adapt and keep up with the changing times as well as the changing lifestyles. However, despite that, the Jaguar XK still holds the characteristics and foundation that is uniquely a Jaguar. In design, as well as in engineering, the Jaguar XK is considered to be one of the most advanced vehicles in technical terms that Jaguar has under its name. 

What is the Jaguar XK in a nutshell? Take a look at it and you would see that it is a 2 + 2 sports car. It is yet another generation of beautifully crafted and specifically engineered vehicles that provide comfort, performance, and a quick and nimble driving and handling down the road. This vehicle’s successor is the Jaguar XK range that was first introduced back in the year 1996. Keeping the Jaguar XK stiff yet strong is an advanced all aluminum construction that makes it very lightweight. Take a look inside its cabin and take a seat at the driver’s side and you would find intuitive controls and technologies that are focused on the driver. The features include a keyless entry system as well as a push button started that enhances the enjoyment of the driver. It is very spacious and very elegant as well. This signifies greatly the craftsmanship, luxury, and quality that only a Jaguar could produce. 

This vehicle comes equipped with a naturally aspirated 4.2 liter Jaguar V8 engine. This engine has the capacity to produce some 300 bhp. Aside from that, the Jaguar XK also holds the new Jaguar Sequential Shift six speed automatic transmission system. This incorporates the steering wheel mounted paddles for manual gear changes. It has supreme power that it can actually achieve 60 mph from standstill in just 5.9 seconds, and later on it could complete a quarter mile sprint in just 14.4 seconds. This is some 0.5 seconds less off the pace of the previous 390 bhp supercharged version. Its limited top speed electronically is 155 mph. 

As per its entertainment features, one would find the latest with the Jaguar XK. One could opt to add in an Alpine Dolby Pro-logic II 525 watt surround sound system, as well as the Sirius satellite radio. Available also is a standard Bluetooth wireless technology made just for mobile phones. This technology supports all models of mobile phones.


