Title: 
Taking Off The Sticky Bumper Sticker

Word Count:
316

Summary:
When new, bumper stickers could shout out to the world their message. But through time and through various weather conditions, the sticker’s message could get faded until it is just another black piece of vinyl stuck to your car.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,genuine Volvo 960 parts,Volvo parts,Volvo accessories,bumper sticker


Article Body:
Remember that bumper sticker you wholeheartedly stuck on your car’s bumper? You know, that one which stated your message blatantly out to the public. You were so emotional about that topic that you wanted the whole world to know what was screaming in your mind. The bumper sticker that you used surely told it all and it did all the work for you.

Bumper stickers are stickers that hold a message. It can be attached to the bumper of your car however some people would even attach it on the windows or even on the windshield itself. Oftentimes, these bumper stickers are made of vinyl. 

When new, these bumper stickers could shout out to the world their message. But through time and through various weather conditions, the sticker’s message could get faded until it is just another black piece of vinyl stuck to your car. One way of removing such stickers is to use penetrating oil. However, there are more easy ways of removing them without harming your bumper or whatever part of your vehicle it is stuck on. 

Unless you would to replace the auto parts with the bumper sticker with genuine Volvo 960 parts, you can simply spray the sticker with lubricant. Oil could also do. Apply the lubricant and let it soak through for a couple of minutes. Then try to peel it off.

If this trick does not work, you can try using a blow dryer. This would lessen the hold of the adhesive of the sticker. From a corner of the sticker, continue to apply heat from the blow dryer and start peeling that corner off. You can use a rubber or plastic spatula or knife. Do not use metal or you can find scratches on the area. Doing this would result to a sticker-free bumper or window or windshield. Wipe away any remains of the sticker with a rag.


