Title: 
Teen Drivers Better Be Careful This July And August

Word Count:
323

Summary:
Do you have a driver who is sixteen or seventeen years old? If you do, you better brace yourself for this piece of information. According to the American Automobile Association (AAA) department Foundation for Traffic Safety study, July and August, the summer months, are the deadliest months of the year for such teenage drivers.


Keywords:
auto parts,Lincoln,Lincoln parts,Lincoln headlights,Lincoln accessories


Article Body:
Do you have a driver who is sixteen years old? Or seventeen years old? If you do, you better brace yourself for this piece of information. According to the American Automobile Association (AAA) department Foundation for Traffic Safety study, July and August, the summer months, are the deadliest months of the year for such teenage drivers. 

However, the study goes on to show that if the parents of teenage drivers make sure that driving restrictions are being maintained, the crash rate of this group of drivers can be lowered by around 20 per cent. Those teens who punctually observe and follow restriction rules have lesser chances of meeting accidents and crashes, compared to those who simply ignore these traffic and driving rules. 

All of these were products of analysis of the said group. They collected data from various states which held nighttime and passenger restrictions for drivers who were 16 years old. They then compared such data to those states which did not have such restrictions. 

Brad Roeber is the president for the AAA Chicago Region. He states, “Summer vacation for teens often means unstructured schedules, less guidance from mom and dad, and more exposure to crashes. Enforcing safe driving rules that include passenger and nighttime limits is essential in keeping your teen and others safe on the road.” 

The study furthermore exposed that there were factors that worked their way to differentiate those teenagers who were already involved in crashes and those teenagers who were yet still to meet an accident. These factors included observance and conformity with state laws on driving, observance of traffic regulations and rules, as well as involvement of parents. 

Roeber backed this finding out by saying, “Teens whose parents take an active role, obey traffic rules and regulations, and follow graduated driver licensing (GDL) requirements are much less likely to crash. Just think how many lives we could save with the combination of the right laws and parental involvement.”


