Title: 
Telematics Says BMW Leader In High-Tech Features

Word Count:
312

Summary:
The Telematics Research Group (TRG), through its Automotive Technology Index, had recently announced to the whole automotive public that it is the BMW brand that is still topping lists on having the best high technology features in all of their vehicles.


Keywords:
auto parts,BMW,BMW parts,BMW accessories


Article Body:
The Telematics Research Group (TRG), through its Automotive Technology Index, had recently announced to the whole automotive public that it is the BMW brand that is still topping lists on having the best high technology features in all of their vehicles. This is according to a study that the group has conducted for all vehicle brands that are offered in the United States and the rest of North America. 

The Automotive Technology Index, that was created and done by the Telematics Research Group, has been done through actions like measuring the availability of key telematics. It also included other criteria like driver assistance as well as infotainment technologies. They did check all there criteria on various brands’ line up of vehicles that are offered to the market. And the conclusion came out that BMW took the top score, hence claiming the spot as the leader in the aspect of high technology features in vehicles. 

Phil Magney is the principal analyst for the group who conducted the study. He comments, “BMW has been a technology leader for many years, as it is part of the brand’s positioning.” And this has been proven by the brand through the various that it has been sending to the automobile market. 

A whole package of features. This is what BMW has been offering the market for each of their vehicles. The list of high technology features includes the integrated navigations systems with iDrive and Voice Command, the BMW Night Vision, Adaptive Cruise Control, Head Up Display, as well as Park Distance Control. For entertainment, high technology is certainly reflected in the Sirius Satellite Radio, HD Radio, rear seat entertainment, and iPod integration. There also is the BMW Assist system and services. You can also call without using your hands through the Bluetooth hands free calling with speed recognition which is part of the BMW Assist system.


