Title: 
The Elegance and Power of the Daewoo Leganza

Word Count:
408

Summary:
This vehicle is the Daewoo Leganza and it is a midsized sedan that was produced in South Korea. This vehicle lived from 1997 up until 2002 and later on, the Daewoo Magnus came to replace the Daewoo Leganza. The vehicle actually measures 105.1 inches of wheelbase, 183.9 inches of length, a width of 70.0 inches, and a height of 56.6 inches. The Daewoo Leganza could be considered as a package in itself.


Keywords:
auto parts,Daewoo,Daewoo Leganza,Daewoo parts,Daewoo accessories,Daewoo Nubria accessories,Daewoo Espero accessories


Article Body:
From the company that produced the Hyundai Sonata comes another vehicle that has been predicted to make waves, which indeed it did. This vehicle is the Daewoo Leganza and it is a midsized sedan that was produced in South Korea. This vehicle lived from 1997 up until 2002 and later on, the Daewoo Magnus came to replace the Daewoo Leganza. 

During the time that this vehicle roared and soared on the streets and highways, it held the title as being the small car flagship of Daewoo. The company responsible for the Daewoo Leganza claims that its name is a mixture of two Italian words – “elegante” which means elegant and “forza” which means power. In fact, this vehicle from Daewoo holds an exterior design and style that has been the product of the joint efforts of two parties. These parties are the company’s in house stylists and the renowned ItalDesign operation of Guigiaro. If the Daewoo has come out to be an astounding and magnificent vehicle because of its exemplary design, then it would certainly not be much of a surprise after all ItalDesign is the very same party which is responsible for the design and style of other fine cars that includes the Lexus GS 300. 

The engine that the Daewoo Leganza held was a 2.2 liter engine with four inline cylinders and valves and this machine actually has the capacity and capability to produce some 131 units of horsepower. To provide a much better handling for the vehicle, installed in the vehicle is an electronically controlled four speed automatic transmission system. The vehicle actually measures 105.1 inches of wheelbase, 183.9 inches of length, a width of 70.0 inches, and a height of 56.6 inches. Its fuel economy is not so bad after all it can do 20 miles per gallon when driving in the city, and some 29 miles per gallon for highway driving. 

The Daewoo Leganza could be considered as a package in itself. After all, it has been accented and adorned with various features not only for safety and for performance, but for functionality and comfort as well. It has a door that has been crafted to eb good and solid. The cabin could be covered in fine leather if the owner chooses to, although it comes with the standard wood trim for a more earthly feel. Other features include four wheel disc anti lock brakes, a rack and pinion steering, air conditioning, power windows, locks, and mirrors, air bags, and a keyless entry system.


