Title: 
The Exhausted Exhaust Pipe

Word Count:
353

Summary:
Exhaust pipes are not just any tubes or pipes. They have been designed with precise computations and with accurate designs so as to guide the harmful gases of a vehicle away from the engine. It is very essential for if the waste gases simply accumulate in your car’s engine, you and your passengers can actually suffer from poisoning of these gases and it could be very lethal.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo S90 parts,XC90 parts,Volvo parts,Volvo accessories,exhaust pipes


Article Body:
Do you know what your exhaust pipe is for?

Well, in the most basic sense, the exhaust pipe that you find in your vehicle is a tube that actually guides any exhaust or waste gases away from your car’s engine. It is very essential for if the waste gases simply accumulate in your car’s engine, you and your passengers can actually suffer from poisoning of these gases and it could be very lethal. 

Exhaust pipes are not just any tubes or pipes. They have been designed with precise computations and with accurate designs so as to guide these harmful gases away from the engine. You can see that the exhaust pipe is part of your vehicle’s exhaust system and it connects to the exhaust manifold of your vehicle. So as to lessen any engine noise, there is a muffler as part of it. The harmful emissions are even lessened in toxicity with the assistance of a catalytic converter. 

You may not notice your exhaust pipe as you may take much attention to other parts of your vehicle like your paint, windows, or tires but your exhaust pipe can really get rusty and old. Now, when this happens, you just may find out one day that it could fall off and start a ruckus by being dragged on the road. Now that would be something that you may not want to have. 

If you are faced with this kind of situation, you should try to check if it is attached very thinly, then you should try to break if off. Keep in mind that before you do touch your car’s exhaust pipe, make sure that it is cool enough to touch or you might just get burnt in the process. On the other hand, if you cannot break it off, look around for a wire coat hanger or a mechanic’s wire. Wrap this around one end of the hanging pipe and then fasten the other end to the underside of your car. This should keep it in place right up until you bring your car to the muffler shop.


