Title: 
The Remarkable Sports Car

Word Count:
526

Summary:
Mazda provided the automotive world with an affordable true sports car with its Mazda Miata. The Mazda Miata comes in a small sized car with clean lines, a simple drivetrain, an outstanding handling, and a very unpretentious character and appeal.


Keywords:
auto parts,brakes,Mazda Miata parts,steering


Article Body:
Mazda provided the automotive world with an affordable true sports car with its Mazda Miata. This vehicle was developed and designed in the California studio of Mazda and the complete manufacturing and production was really and entirely done in the company’s factory in Japan. This vehicle has certainly garnered such a quite large interest in the automobile industry. And throughout the world, this vehicle has gained much popularity. 

The Mazda Miata comes in a small sized car with clean lines, a simple drivetrain, an outstanding handling, and a very unpretentious character and appeal. Since its introduction, this vehicle has always maintained its world-class appeal, and at present continues to be the phenomenon that it is. This vehicle has been continuously credited for reviving the passion for roadsters, and at the same time it has achieved other vehicle manufacturers to pursue ideas like the Mazda Miata. It could be accounted for the creation of other vehicles like the Dodge Viper, the Volkswagen New Beetle, the new Ford Thunderbird, the Chrysler PT Cruiser, and the Chevrolet SSR.  After its introduction, the Mazda Miata entered countless of Top 10 lists for vehicles. 

It was first introduced in 1989 as a 1990 model. The Mazda Miata resembled the early 1960s Lotus Elan. Even if it was not quite quick, this Mazda Miata became a sensation. It was a relatively small and light vehicle with just an 89.2 inch wheelbase and 155.2 inches overall. Everything it held had a light touch making this quite a remarkable car. It had an optional power steering feature, and given as a standard feature was the manual rack-and-pinion set up that reacted on impulse to steering inputs. It reacted with subtle details about what was going on with its tires. The first of its kind was powered by a 1.6 liter dual-overhead cam that was capable of powering up to 116 horsepower. 

As the years went on, the Mazda Miata, a sports car that could take in two passengers, went through different changes. Added as options were antilock brakes, and a four-speed automatic transmission. Also, its paint had changed in color and hue, plus an addition of leather seating, a rear suspension cross brace, a roof liner and defroster for its hardtop, a sensory sound system, passenger-side airbags, power steering, a leather-wrapped steering wheel, power windows, power mirrors, aluminum alloy wheels, cruise control, power door locks, remote keyless entry, Bilstein shock absorbers, and BBS wheels. The corporate logo was also mounted on its nose. 

A new Mazda Miata is soon bound to roll its way to the streets and highways this 2006 or 2007. It is built on a modified version of Mazda’s RX8 sports car platform. This time, it has a 2.0 liter twincam 4-cylinder engine. It will sport a more rounded and serious look with its flared wheel arches, fuller body sides, and more aggressive looking nose. It will offer a little bit more space and room. Also, torso side airbags will be added in. 

Locating Mazda Miata parts and other Mazda auto parts is a breeze for online companies like Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts offer quality auto parts with the best prices to save customers on over-priced purchases.


