Title: 
The Jetta Feel

Word Count:
510

Summary:
From the Value Edition 2.5 L to the GLI, the 2006 Volkswagen Jetta has been crafted by the Volkswagen automobile company to take in a maximum passenger capacity of five people.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volkswagen parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
From the Value Edition 2.5 L to the GLI, the 2006 Volkswagen Jetta has been crafted by the Volkswagen automobile company to take in a maximum passenger capacity of five people. Also, this vehicle sports two doors, and the whole vehicle has been considered as a carryover from the previous year, 2005. This vehicle though was first introduced to the United States and North America back in 1980. And after that said event, the Volkswagen Jetta then became the Volkswgen’s top-selling nameplate in that part of the globe. Other than that, it has also been perennially another best-selling nameplate in Europe. Although the new 2006 Volkswagen Jetta does not resonate and take in the overall package of its previous models, this new one still does provide the sporty kind of feel that would mostly attract those people who would like to have some added fun into their driving life, as well as the young and hip buyers of the automobile market. 

The Volkswagen Jetta, though, retains the Volkswagen look along with the previous Jetta’s as well. It sports a deeper front spoiler, compared to the previous car, along with front fog lights, a blacked-out grilled surround, and really strong 18 inch aluminum wheels. It has an interior that boasts aluminum pedals, a shift lever that is wrapped in exquisite leather, a squared-off sport steering wheel, and some decent bucket seats. This vehicle also has a better driving feel compared to the Toyota Corolla. It gives a supple and compliant ride for drivers as the 2006 Volkswagen Jetta goes down the freeway. This vehicle could also be considered as a sport-compact car made for grown-ups. 

The 2006 Volkswagen Jetta holds a variety of features. The list of features include anti-lock 4 wheel disc brakes, traction control, front side air bags, head-protecting curtain side air bags, and a split folding rear seatbacks. Also added in is an antiskid system. Other features comprise of a sport suspension, unique styling details inside the vehicle and outside as well, rear side air bags, xenon headlights, a navigation system, heated front seats, a wood interior trim, leather upholstery, a satellite radio, and sunroof. Also made available for the 2006 Volkswagen Jetta is a 2.5 liter, 5 cylinder engine with a 5-speed manual or a 6-speed automatic transmission with manual shift capability. Other features are limited slip differential, an emergency inside trunk release, daytime running lights, air conditioning, interior air filter, power steering, tilt/telescope steering wheel, cruise control, cloth upholstery, center console, cup holders, split folding rear seat, heated power mirrors with turn signals, power windows, power door locks, a remote keyless entry system, an AM/FM/CD/MP3 player, a digital clock, tachometer, outside temperature indicator, variable intermittent wipers, a rear defogger, and floor mats. 

Preserving the Volkswagen culture and Volkswagen appeal so as to sustain the performance and driving experience of Volkswagen vehicles is one thing that Auto Parts Go is proud of. Auto Parts Go is an online supplier of Volkswagen parts and replacement auto parts that are top of the line and made from excellent and quality material. 
</p>


