Title: 
The all new BMW M6

Word Count:
389

Summary:
You like fast cars?Like good old european racers? Then have a peak at this new BMW M6. One of the best sports cars in the world, beautiful, elegant, sexy and fast.


Keywords:
bmw, car, bmw parts


Article Body:
The BMW M6 is the most sophisticated and powerful BMW 6 Series Coupe ever. Under the lightweight body of this luxurious 2+2 lurks a thoroughbred super sports car boasting a V10, 507bhp power unit, providing 520Nm of torque. A seven-speed sequential manual gearbox and a superior chassis and suspension compliment its engine. 

The all-new M6 features weight-saving technologies such as a carbon-fiber roof and 19-inch forged aluminium wheels that are almost four pounds lighter than regular cast wheels. With almost 500 horsepower available, BMW claims the M6 will hit 60 mph in under 4.6 seconds, and it will run to 20 5mph without the traditional 155-mph speed limiter. 

The suspension, though similar to that of the M5, is specially tuned to take advantage of the M6's shorter wheelbase and lower centre of gravity. Massive cross-drilled brakes enable the M6 to pull up from 60 mph in less than 118 feet. The new M6 also uses BMW's new third-generation seven speed Sequential Manual Gearbox (SMG) with Drivelogic. Drivelogic offers the choice of 11 different change patterns, depending on the speed of change required. 

The new SMG gearbox also offers safety benefits when downshifting on slippery surfaces. If it detects the rear wheels locking up, the clutch opens for a fraction of a second to ensure traction is maintained. In automatic mode, the SMG gearbox recognizes that the car is travelling on an incline and holds gears uphill to maintain acceleration and selects lower gears when progressing downhill to make the most of the available engine braking. 

The BMW M6 has deeper front valance with air intakes for the engine and brakes, more contoured sills and rear valance that includes a diffuser to increase aerodynamic efficiency. If you want to maintain the superior performance of your BMW, then StephenJames is the store for you. StephenJames is the leading supplier of BMW discount- priced finest quality BMW Auto Parts. For your performance demands, StephenJames offers electrical parts, exhaust, catalytic converters, grille, head panel, engine parts, spoiler, radiator support, rear body panel, turn signal lights and a whole lot more. 

A tremendous line of discount BMW auto parts guaranteed to be the best of its kind is found at http://www.partstrain.com/ShopByVehicle/BMW . The services of its highly trained and friendly staff do not end when parts are delivered at your doorstep, call them and receive valuable technical support.


