Title: 
The Bimmer’s Bavaria

Word Count:
481

Summary:
BMW AG is actually an abbreviation for “Baverische Motoren Werke AG”. The BMW Bavaria was a part of the BMW E3 line. This is German for “Bavarian Motor Works”. In the English language, BMW AG has a tagline that states, “The Ultimate Driving Machine” and “Sheer Driving Pleasure”. The price of this vehicle was noticeably lower.


Keywords:
auto parts,BMW,BMW Bavaria parts,BMW parts,BMW accessories


Article Body:
If the Ford Motor Company is the big corporate umbrella which gives shelter to the Buick, Pontiac, and Cadillac among others, then it could be said that BMW AG works the same way for the BMW MINI, and for the Rolls-Royce brands. The Rover also used to be a part of this big mother ship. BMW AG is actually an abbreviation for “Baverische Motoren Werke AG”. This is German for “Bavarian Motor Works”. This company not only manufactures vehicles and cars but also motorcycles as well. The main competitors and competition for this vehicle brand include the Acura, the Alfa Romeo, the Audi, the Cadillac, the Infiniti, the Jaguar, the Lexus, and the Mercedes Benz. 

When it comes to pronouncing the acronym of this company, in its motherland, it is pronounced as “bay emm vay”. However, travel to North American and other regions like Jamaica, the brand is referred to as “bimmers”. Try to refer to BMW motorcycles and the slang for that would be “beamer” or “beemer”. In Greece, the acronym is referred to as “Beba”, in Arab countries it is “BM”, and in Serbia they say “Bembara”. In the English language, BMW AG has a tagline that states, “The Ultimate Driving Machine” and “Sheer Driving Pleasure”. The original slogan, though, for this which is in German is “Freude am Fahren” which when translated to English literally means “Joy in Driving”. 

One of these bimmers is the BMW Bavaria. People who have looked deeper into its lifetime has exclaimed that it is perhaps one of the most misunderstood cars of the whole line up of BMW. It is just known as just a relative of the E9 coupe, and has four doors and that would be it. What most people do not recognize is that this vehicle even has the very same drivetrain with the aforementioned BMW E9 coupe. Their drivetrains hold six cylinders and are actually one of the smoothest in the whole business. Aside from that, this vehicle is one of the most stylish vehicles ever created by the BMW line. If a person has the ability to catch one of these today, it would be considered a great bargain. It has a subtle style and a boundless beauty. This vehicle makes every other vehicle in the market at present look generic and ordinary. 

The BMW Bavaria was a part of the BMW E3 line. This vehicle was the first among its line that held a 3 liter engine. In essence, it was a machine with 2800 cc which had somewhat become a trend during that time among BMW vehicles. However, the difference was that the BMW Bavaria came without the leather upholstery, without the power equipment and without the funky Nivomat self-leveling suspension. Of course, the price did not remain to be the very same as that of the E3s. The price of this vehicle was noticeably lower.


