Title: 
The Daihatsu Charade Life Line

Word Count:
392

Summary:
Since 1977, the Daihatsu Charade has already been roaming the streets and roads. Unlike the usual small and compact car from the Daihatsu company, this vehicle is actually a large compact car. It has been crafted so as to be able to have a point of comparison with its competitors.


Keywords:
auto parts,Daihatsu,Daihatsu Charade,Daihatsu parts,catalytic converter,starter


Article Body:
Daihatsu Motor Co., Ltd. is actually a manufacturer of cars and vehicles that has its main headquarters located in Japan. This auto manufacturer is known for its designing and crafting of compact cars and small cars. In Japan, these small and compact cars are known as “kei jidosha”. At present, Daihatsu also researches and finds interesting and useful information on hybrids as well as on two stroke diesel engines. 

Passenger car models from this manufacturer include the toy model of the Daihatsu Midget Applause, the Atrai, the Be-Go, the Boon, the Ceria, the Charade, the Compagno, the Consorte, the Copen, the Cuore, the Hijet, the Max, the Midget, the Move, the Rocky, the Sirion, the Taruna, the Terios, the Valera, the Xenia, and the YRV. 

Since 1977, the Daihatsu Charade has already been roaming the streets and roads. Unlike the usual small and compact car from the Daihatsu company, this vehicle is actually a large compact car. It has been crafted so as to be able to have a point of comparison with its competitors. The year that this vehicle first rolled off the manufacturing plants, that first generation of Daihatsu Charades, or was known to be the G10, came available as a hatchback with either three doors or five doors. The power came from a 993 cc engine with three cylinders. It held the capability to create 50 hp JIS. 

The next batch came in 1983 and this next batch of Daihatsu Charades was known as the G11. The same body styles remained. This time, however, it held several variations in its 1.0 liter engine with cylinders. Among those was the turbocharged version of this that was capable of creating 68 hp JIS and a Diesel version as well. Made available for the first time was a five speed manual transmission. Two versions were made with this batch and it was the square eye and the cat eye versions. 

Two more generations followed after the G11. The third generation came in 1987 and the last generation found its way in 1994. The third generation of 1987 was came to be known as the G100 series. As per the fourth generation of Daihatsu Charades that entered the scene in 1994, that group was dubbed as the G200 series. The crafting and production of the Daihatsu Charade stopped completely in 2005 and was later on replaced by the Daihatsu Sirion and the Daihatsu YRV.


