Title: 
The 2006 Dodge Viper SRT10

Word Count:
315

Summary:
The automobile Dodge Viper was first introduced over fifteen years ago in 1992. Since then the Dodge Viper has changed, improved and faced many obstacles as well. But its popularity has never gone down. Many people still love Dodge Vipers. The new 2006 Viper model has also changed; it has been introduced as a coupe. Many people have been waiting to see what Dodge had up their sleeves, now the wait is over. Read on and see the many changes that have been made to the DodgeViper...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The automobile Dodge Viper was first introduced over fifteen years ago in 1992. Since then the Dodge Viper has changed, improved and faced many obstacles as well. But its popularity has never gone down. Many people still love Dodge Vipers. The new 2006 Viper model has also changed; it has been introduced as a coupe. Many people have been waiting to see what Dodge had up their sleeves, now the wait is over. Read on and see the many changes that have been made to the DodgeViper. 

The most apparent change of the Viper would have to be that the model has a double bubble roof. Double bubble roof you say? Yes I’m not kidding; the roof has a unique shape. For those who do not know, double bubble is a material that consists of two outer layers of aluminum foil. This helps reflect radiant energy. But the roof also allows for more space and flexibility. Many other changes that were made to the Viper would be the door glass, integrated rear spoiler, rear quarter panels and a wraparound tail light. Though it still is the same as the older models, it just has a touch more flair to it. 

The 2006 Dodge Viper has an 8.3 litre all-aluminium motor that works with ten cylinders. The engine has the power to produce 500 horsepower’s and about 525 pounds of torque. It also has a six speed manual transmission. Wow, talk about being packed with a punch. Now there is no more need to convince you about how great this car is.

The new Dodge Viper SRT10 is nothing short of style, luxury, performance and safety. You will feel like a new person once you test drive it. So go and check the 2006 Viper out today and see what all the fuss is about. Once you’ve driven it, make the decision for yourself. You’ll be glad you did.


