Title: 
The Contour Years

Word Count:
507

Summary:
Replacing the Ford Tempo is the Ford Contour. It strictly competes with the Honda Accord, the Chrysler Cirrus, the Dodge Stratus, and other compact and mid-size sedans.  The 2000 Ford Contour held a DOHC 24-valve V6 engine with aluminum block and heads.


Keywords:
auto parts,steering,Ford Contour parts


Article Body:
Replacing the Ford Tempo is the Ford Contour. It strictly competes with the Honda Accord, the Chrysler Cirrus, the Dodge Stratus, and other compact and mid-size sedans. This vehicle is crafted and manufactured by the Ford Motor Company in the United States and has been made available in a couple of trim levels including GL, LX, and the sporty SE. This vehicle exudes performance, refinement and an overall execution. 

This vehicle has a standard dual airbags and optional features comprise of antilock brakes, and traction control. Also, this vehicle’s other features are bumpers that could withstand a five mph impact, and a base engine that was a 2.0 liter 4-cylinder engine that could produce 125 horsepower that works well with a 5-speed manual shift or the optional electronic 4-speed automatic transmission. 

This vehicle suffered from several mishaps in several of its parts. The automatic transmission had a faulty manual lever position sensor. If the parking brake cables held some ice during the winter month, this will not allow the brake to release. Its dashboard lights were somewhat faulty with the charge warning lights glowing. Since its production in 1995, it already suffered from performance faults. The list included front seatbelt anchor tabs cracking, fuel-tank filler reinforcements leaking, the metal shield on its plastic fuel-filler pipe developing stating charge during refueling that could be an ignition source, passenger airbags inflator body cracking, overheating at head lamp and wiring-harness terminals that could result in open circuit for instrument lights, parking lamps, and tail lamps, front coil springs fracturing as a result of corrosion in several extreme environments, and owner guide manuals not being sufficiently clear. 

However, because of these mishaps, the Ford Contour underwent several drastic changes so as to fully facilitate a greater driving experience for its users. In 1995, the Ford Contour reduced its chrome stripes on its bumpers and its body had been colored. The front seats were now recessed in the back so as to improve rear seat leg room. A year after, the traction control and heated mirrors were no longer an option. The remote fuel door release was removed. Made available were interior trunk lights, tilt steering wheels, and power antennas. The year 1997 made the Ford Contour sport new designs in its front and rear ends. The roof line was altered and the rear deck shorted so as to further improve rear seat headroom. For the last year of its production, 2000, each trim level received different changes and restyling. 

The 2000 Ford Contour held a DOHC 24-valve V6 engine with aluminum block and heads. It had a Ford EEC-IV engine control system with port fuel injection. It had a power of 170 bhp at 6250 rpm and a capability of 165 lb-ft. of torque at 4250 rpm. It sported a transmission of a 5-speed manual. It held a curb weight of 2910 lb. The Ford Contour’s wheelbase was 106.5 inches and a length of 183.9 inches. 

Ford Parts and Ford Auto Parts provides Ford Contour owners and Ford enthusiasts a complete line of the highest quality Ford auto parts like Ford Countour parts.


