Title: 
The Features and Options of the Mazda RX 8

Word Count:
364

Summary:
Mazda has designed and manufactured the Mazda RX 8 to be a vehicle that could be upgraded. And the company has made sure that there are packages available for those interested in sprucing up their Mazda RX 8 vehicles. One package is the Sport package.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda RX8,Mazda parts,Mazda accessories,Mazda RX8 parts


Article Body:
The North American International Auto Show back in the year 2001 served as the avenue and channel for the Mazda Motor Corporation to show off and introduce to the public one of the vehicles that showed much potential and delivered greatly. This vehicle is the Mazda RX 8. During its introduction that year, it held a 250 PS JIS RENESIS engine that could produce some 247 units of horsepower at 8500 rpm. This engine won the International Engine of the Year award and the Best New Engine award in 2003. 

The Mazda RX 8 was made available in two variants. These variants are the 197-horsepower base model that held an automatic transmission system, and the 238-horsepower performance model with a six speed manual transmission system. Of course, there are differences between these two trim levels. The Mazda RX 8 with the automatic transmission system holds standard features like air conditioning, sixteen inch wheels, power windows, power locks, and power mirrors. As per the trim level with the manual transmission system, this vehicle has the same features as per the other one however, it has added features like a limited slip differential, a sport tuned suspension, and 18 inch wheels and tires. 

Mazda has designed and manufactured the Mazda RX 8 to be a vehicle that could be upgraded. And the company has made sure that there are packages available for those interested in sprucing up their Mazda RX 8 vehicles. One package is the Sport package. This gives the vehicle additional xenon headlights, a stability and traction control system, fog lights, a limited slip differential, larger brakes, a retuned suspension, and eighteen inch wheels and tires. There also is the Touring package that has features like the Sport package but adds several more features like a sunroof, a Bose audio system, a HomeLink system, and auto dimming mirrors. The last package is the Grand Touring package that is considered to be a combination of the previously mentioned two packages. This package is considered to be top of the line and has additional equipment and features for the Mazda RX 8 like a six way power adjustable and heated driver’s seat, leather upholstery, heated side mirrors, a navigation system, and an in-dash six disc CD changer.


