Title: 
The 1969 Chevrolet Chevelle SS

Word Count:
387

Summary:
It was 1969. And what an amazing year it was! The Beatles’ world renowned hit Come Together was at the top of the music charts along with Johnny Cash’s A Boy Named Sue, Neil Armstrong set foot on the moon, and the 1969 Chevy Chevelle SS, now a classic muscle car, was born. The Chevy Chevelle SS met the demands of muscle car enthusiasts for small cars with powerful motors. Its sporty fast-back body style which was first concocted in the redesign of the 1968 models gave it a to...


Keywords:



Article Body:
It was 1969. And what an amazing year it was! The Beatles’ world renowned hit Come Together was at the top of the music charts along with Johnny Cash’s A Boy Named Sue, Neil Armstrong set foot on the moon, and the 1969 Chevy Chevelle SS, now a classic muscle car, was born. The Chevy Chevelle SS met the demands of muscle car enthusiasts for small cars with powerful motors. Its sporty fast-back body style which was first concocted in the redesign of the 1968 models gave it a touch of class as did the new design of the tail lights. Chevelles are mid-sized cars meeting the median between small sports cars and large family cars. 

The 1969 Chevrolet Chevelle line was the first to have the SS 396 option available but it wasn’t perfect as it resulted the 396 became known for poor handling as it required stiffer springs and shocks than earlier models. Later in the year, the 396 option was replaced with a 402 cubic engine, supposedly due to emission standards. Even in light of the minor imperfections in its initial release, the Chevy Chevelle SS was an incredibly popular muscle car in its time and became one of the very best sellers of all times. 

Limited edition Chevelles were a favorite amongst drag racers due to the powerful engine options, 427s, that could be special ordered. Limited edition Chevelles are few and far between in this day and age, but if you find one, they are worth a pretty penny. Classic car enthusiasts and speed demons alike admire these beauties. 

Chevelles were first released in 1963 with a standard 327 cubic-inch V8, 300 horsepower engine. However, at that time the Pontiac GTO has a 389 that was unmatched. Chevrolet responded to the competition over the years by gradually increasing the power of their motors. 
Chevy continued to produce Chevelles until 1973. 

If you go to car shows where muscle cars are featured, you are sure to see 1969 Chevrolet Chevelle SS models because collectors absolutely love them. They are fast, high-performing cars as well as being practical size-wise which makes them pretty unique. The 1969 Chevrolet Chevelle SS is a car that is appealing to both classic car collectors and racers. Its got style, its got speed and its incredibly durable making it a muscle car classic that just about anyone would be honored to own.


