Title: 
The 2007 Mitsubishi Spyder’s Ad Campaign

Word Count:
366

Summary:
The 24th of April for this year marked the launching of the Mitsubishi Motors North America (MMNA) multi-media national advertising campaign. This campaign is focused primarily on supporting and marketing the all-new 2007 Eclipse Spyder.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mitsubishi Spyder,Mitsubishi parts,Mitsubishi accessories


Article Body:
The 24th of April for this year marked the launching of the Mitsubishi Motors North America (MMNA) multi-media national advertising campaign. This campaign is focused primarily on supporting and marketing the all-new 2007 Eclipse Spyder. The Mitsubishi Spyder has already been on sale since the previous month. 

This whole new chain of advertisements and campaigns for the Mitsubishi Spyder includes the company’s “25 years in America” theme. It also has advertisements and commercials made specially for various mediums and channels like television, print media, and online channels. The advertisement for this vehicle continues the company’s “Driven to Thrill” theme line. It highlights the Spyder’s premium features that includes the Rockford Fosgate audio system, and the unique automatic sound equalization. 

The television ad for the Mitsubishi Spyder runs for around 30 seconds. It would soon be airing on a number of television channels and in 37 markets. There will also be spots for this commercial on popular cable networks. The television commercial is titled, “Song”. It was shot in an old airport runway in Southern California. The whole commercial actually emphasizes the Mitsubishi Spyder’s perfect balance between sound and speed. 

As per print advertisements, the Mitsubishi Spyder’s ads are bound to hit newsstands and magazine stands come this month of May. They would be appearing in some well-known automobile magazines and would be highlighting the Spyder’s drop-top fun. The ads would be showing the vehicle with its top down and of course, there would be Japanese graphics in the background. The ad copy reads, “Sensible takes a holiday.”

The all-new 2007 Mitsubishi Spyder is a convertible that offers not only a great view of the sky whether at night or during daytime, but it also offers a variety of packages and features that would surely provide its passengers a worthwhile drive and ride. 

On the other hand, there are various auto parts dealers like <a href="http://www.autopartsgo.com/">Auto Parts Go</a> that strive to keep up with any latest developments and creations from Mitsubishi. In fact, it has in stock the highest quality and impressive <a href="http://www.autopartsgo.com/Mitsubishi.html">Mitsubishi parts</a> that are offered at low discount prices.


