Title: 
The Process of Car Interior Cleaning

Word Count:
416

Summary:
Through time, your car’s interior could be accumulating more and more dirt inside. It could be suffering from too much baggage – dirt, sand, grime, food crumbs, wrappers, spills, and other things. If everything accumulates, you might be finding a car interior that smells funny but also an interior that does not look nice.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda parts,Mazda body parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
Through time, your car’s interior could be accumulating more and more dirt inside. In fact, you may never notice, however your interior could be suffering from too much baggage – dirt, sand, grime, food crumbs, wrappers, spills, and other things. And if everything accumulates, you might be finding a car interior that smells funny but also an interior that does not look nice. At all. 

Cleaning can be something that you may not want to do. However, keep in mind that it would cost you a couple hundred in cash to have everything cleaned up by a professional service center. Remember, though, that you can actually do it yourself and just sacrifice a couple of hours to do this type of work. You will not need anything sophisticated or high technology. Just get out your vacuum cleaner and a couple of other household products and you will be on to a start to cleaning up your car’s interior. 

You should first remove the floor mats from your car. Then, once outside, shake them off. Try to remove any kind of debris that could have stuck itself on them. Your car’s carpets are one of the most likely things where dirt gets accumulated. 

After that task, use your vacuum cleaner with a hose attachment. Use this to vacuum any dirt on all the seats of your car. Pay close attention to the crevices and the spaces between the cushions. Dirt also likes to hide there. You would also need to carefully vacuum the bottom of your seats as well as the back. Be sure that before you do any vacuuming, your seats are free from trash and coins. These could clog up your vacuum and delay your interior cleaning duties. After that, it is time to turn your vacuuming to your car’s floor as well as the floor mats. When clean, put the floor mats back in. 

Check your car seat cushions. If you see any stains, you can use a damp towel to apply carpet shampoo. However, make sure that you use only a small amount and work it up into a light lather. And when done, you can wipe the shampoo away. Let it dry. 

As per your car’s windows and glass, you can use a window cleaner. A newspaper would do the best job in cleaning these. 

And the best of it all, let the air in. This would throw away any kind of funny smell out of your car.


