Title: 
The Whole Convertible Experience

Word Count:
345

Summary:
Two doors. That’s the usual number of doors that a convertible has. In truth, a convertible is a car body style that has been a popular favorite among many car owners because of the style. For most convertibles, the collapsible roof section is usually made from flexible canvas or vinyl.


Keywords:
auto parts,Infiniti accessories,VW accessories,VW parts,Infinti parts


Article Body:
Two doors. That’s the usual number of doors that a convertible has. In truth, a convertible is a car body style that has been a popular favorite among many car owners because of the style. This is mainly because a convertible has a folding or a retracting roof. 

For most convertibles, the collapsible roof section is usually made from flexible canvas or vinyl. However, technology and changes in design have made it possible for car manufacturers to produce convertibles with a collapsible roof section that is made of plastic, aluminum, or steel. Keep in mind though that when the top of the vehicle is made from rigid material like steel, that vehicle is often called a retractable hardtop instead of it being called a convertible. 

Driving in a convertible could be quite fun especially when you do imagine the scene where you drive downtown with the wind in your hair and the top off of your car. That surely would make your adrenaline rush as well as make other people’s heads turn towards your direction. That is why it is important that you do put in your head some tips when you drive or own a convertible. 

If you want to open or close the top of your convertible, it is important that you pull over first and come to a complete stop. You see, if you try to open or close the top of your convertible while you are speeding, the force of the wind could actually damage the mechanism that controls it. It is also important that you wear eye protection like sunglasses. This type of protection would actually keep any airborne debris like dust, sand, or small parts of trees from getting into your eyes. 

When you have to park your convertible, park somewhere where there are no trees. That is, if you plan to leave your car with the top down. You see, if you park under trees with the top down, when you come back, you would most likely find bird droppings or tree sap in your car.


