Title: 
The Pot Of Gold Under The Rainbow: The 2007 Camry

Word Count:
753

Summary:
The strong and sensual external lines of the 2007 Camry articulate a reserved sensibility making the car seem more expensive than it really is. The larger than normal headlights, integrated bumpers and dual crease lines on the hood make the nose appear more bulbous and further enhance the car’s gallant characteristics while boasting exceptional aerodynamics to 0.28 Cd. Now available as a Hybrid, the 2007 Camry serves the need for practicality without compromising aesthetics.


Keywords:
new toyota quote, toyota prices, toyota camry, toyota camry quote, new camry quote, new car, ne wcar quote, new cars, quote new cars, new car price


Article Body:
You may not know it yet, but there’s a hole in your heart the shape of the 2007 Toyota Camry. Chances are you could be living a happy and fulfilled life without ever sensing that it’s there, unless of course you happen to take the new Camry for a test drive. Introduced at the 2006 Superbowl where the Pittsburg Steelers outdid the Seattle Seahawks 21-10, Toyota made an effort to reach Hispanic viewers with its 30-second Camry commercial. The spot featured a father and his 4 year old son driving in their new Camry Hybrid. As the two switch back and forth between Spanish and English, the father explains why he speaks two languages and why he bought a hybrid, which can switch between electric and gas power. The camera follows the conversation with revealing glimpses of the car in motion. Recent print ads highlight the Camry’s ability to filter incoming air, its emotionally charged body, and the optional dual-electric performance Hybrid engine. The progress of the genre now gives 147 horsepower while averaging 40 mpg; the car is quick off the line as the pulse of your heartbeat. With a MSRP of $25,900 the 2007 Camry Hybrid is priced more than the Prius, but well within the range of the Honda Accord, or the 2007 Honda Civic Hybrid. Toyota’s mid-size cars are the company’s core breadwinners, and this the newest incarnation comes closest to perfection.

The strong and sensual external lines of the 2007 Camry articulate a reserved sensibility making the car seem more expensive than it really is. The larger than normal headlights, integrated bumpers and dual crease lines on the hood make the nose appear more bulbous, further enhance the car’s gallant characteristics while boasting exceptional aerodynamics to 0.28 Cd. Even the sides of the car have a more sculpted appearance giving it a decidedly up-market European look and feel. The rear taillights are clean, placed higher up than on any previous model serving the need for practicality without compromising aesthetics. As a whole, the 2007 Camry looks like it’s draped in fine Roman apparel.

If you step inside the well-engineered cabin of the 2007 Camry, you will find everything works with dogmatic precision. The power windows, door locks, and multi-adjustable comfortable seats are precise – all made from high-quality materials. The detailed instrument cluster for both climate controls and audio system are large, and tactile for easy reading and nice to touch. Previous generation of the Camry had a hard to read font on the half-moon tachometer and speedometer; this has been addressed in the latest model. The new font is larger and matches the sophisticated design of the interior cabin. In terms of space, the inside passenger room has been increased to 101.8 cubic feet with front leg-room at 41.6 inches and 38.3 inches in the rear. Regardless where you sit in the new Camry, both the front and rear seats have ample cushioning, and adequate room for taller adults. Additionally, the foldable rear seats give an additional 60:40 expansion room for extra storage. The completely redesigned inner cabin of the 2007 Toyota Camry succeeds at making driving the car a more relaxing experience.

Toyota’s engineering is currently giving the European car manufacturers a good run for the money. For the 2007 Camry, there are three engines to choose from including: the 2.4-liter with 158 horsepower, the 3.5-liter V6 with 268 horsepower, and the 2.4-liter Hybrid. The latter has two-motors for the Hybrid, one to provide energy for the cabin, and the other to turn the wheels. The naturally aspirated engines gives 24 mpg city; 33 mpg highway, while the Hybrid averages 40 mpg. The Hybrid is most surprising because it gives sporty performance for overtaking, and merging in traffic. 

Falling in love is rewarding experience, especially when you are behind the wheel of the 2007 Camry. This year marks Toyota Motor Company’s 70th anniversary of making motor cars. The company acknowledges its secret to success in the USA is attributed to building safe, mid-sized sedans. As such, the 2007 Camry lists many safety features as standard items including: rear seat child restraint system; anti-lock ABS system to maintain vehicle control; and advanced airbags to appropriately inflate the bags depending on conditions. The new Camry offer style and a well crafted interior at an affordable price. With MSRP ranging from $19,320 for the base model to $25,900 for the 2007 Camry Hybrid, it’s easy to see why everyone is thinking green, while looking better than ever. It’s the perfect getaway companion for taking your beloved to a cozy restaurant, to a seaside resort, and returning home again.


