Title: 
The As Bs and Cs of the 2008 Bentleys

Word Count:
470

Summary:
This article tells the reader all about the 2008 Bentley series available to consumers.


Keywords:
Luxury car, exotic car, bentley, luxury car rental


Article Body:
When the most distinguished automakers are discussed, Bentleys are generally one of the first manufacturers cited and touted. Rotary-engine wiz Walter Owen Bentley founded Bentley Motors in 1919. It is easy to see how Rolls Royce and Bentley were once one organization. The company, which has been a subsidiary of Volkswagen since 1998, is flourishing. It is as popular among today's royalty as it was in its fledgling heydays. 
The A-B-Cs refer to the Arnage line, the Azure, the Brooklands, and the Continental group. Here is look at the 2008 offerings of Bentley Motors. 

The Bentley Mulliner factory logs in overtime when the sporty Arnage T, the elegant Arnage R, and the touring limousine Arnage RT are on the work calendar. This is where a Bentley goes to be modified to fulfill subtle to radical requests by customers. These classic sedans contain special privacy and security unique to Bentleys. The workers of Bentley Mulliner can attest to that! 

The Bentley Azure is the convertible of the premium auto line. However, it is both a performer and a looker with a 6.75-liter V8 engine that has a top speed of 171 mph. There are no modern-day Bentleys without interiors consisting of rich veneers and leather hides. It is an unparalleled extraordinary blending of craftsmanship and beauty that makes commenting on it anyway irresistible! 

The Bentley Brooklands are both elegant and sporty. The low roofline gives the Brooklands a dark side. It is impressive that a vehicle this beautiful hits 60 mph five seconds out from zero. The V-8 engine, which is an in-house job from the famous Crewe factory, tops out at 184 mph. The trim and interior options are a nice touch, too, as privileged buyers select from 27 hides and four veneers. Only 550 Brooklands will be produced and made available during the first quarter 2008. It's an instant classic! 

Imagine driving a Bentley that tops 200 mph and you are behind the wheel of a Continental GT! This is the crème de la crème of coupes for Bentley lovers. It is atop or near it of most lists. The GT is the first Bentley to achieve such an exhilarating speed. This one is as smooth as it gets! 

It is convertible that retracts in 25 seconds and performs just like the GT. What else is there to say? Both Bentley models possess an unconventional 12-cylinder engine that is configured in four banks of three cylinders in a W formation. The compact engine configuration allows for more storage space. 

The Flying Spur is a sedan that thinks it is a GT. With a six-speed automatic transmission, a top speed of 195 mph, and zero to 60 mph in less than five seconds, it is understandable why the F-Spur thinks it is so spry- because it is. The interior technology, including the DVD satellite navigation system, is sophisticated, functional and stylistic.


