Title: 
The Sports Car Attitude of the Mercedes Benz C230

Word Count:
506

Summary:
Sports is all about playing the game wisely. In the sports sedan game in the automobile world, the Mercedes Benz has joined the rest of the manufacturers in adding another competitor. Under with wagon is the Mercedes Benz C230.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mercedes Benz,Mercedes Benz C230,Mercedes Benz parts,wheels,floor mats


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Sports is all about playing the game wisely. It also means knowing all the rules and preparing for anything or any situation that could arise. Sports also means competition and sportsmanship as well as fair conduct. In the sports sedan game in the automobile world, the Mercedes Benz has joined the rest of the manufacturers in adding another competitor. Under with wagon is the Mercedes Benz C230. 

So as to be able to compete with the rest of the veterans in this field of sports sedans, the Mercedes Benz C230 has been crafted and made available bearing a standard six speed manual transmission system. Along with that is a 1.8 liter supercharged engine, some 17 inch wheels, and a sport tuned suspension. Another version of this sports can holds a 189 hp supercharged four cylinder engine. As per the engine, it has a displacement of 1,796 cc. The fuel economy achieved is around 21 to 23 mpg for city driving and 31 to 32 mpg for highways. It can also generate 189 hp at 5800 rpm, plus torque production is 192 pound feet at 3500 rpm. The suspensions for the Mercedes Benz C230 are the F Independent MacPherson strut and the R Independent five link. As per its brakes, this sports car holds two types which comprise of the F vented discs and the R solid discs. Also, this vehicle has a manual transmission, a body cladding, plus an aluminum interior trim. It has power, passion and style. And that is in just one vehicle. This model comes available in two trim levels which comprise of the sports coupe and the sports sedan. 

The electronically limited speed that the Mercedes Benz C230 has is a top speed of 130 mph. It has an estimated curb weight of 3350 to 3400 pounds. It is stretched to a length of 178.3 inches and is mounted on a wheelbase measuring some 106.9 inches. The main competitions that this vehicle has in the sports car range are the Acura TSX, the BMW 325i, and the Audi A4 3.0. 

The Mercedes Benz C230 performs well on sharp corners. It is much more sportier than it actually looks. Despite a hairpin alacrity, high speed bends, and body rolls, the sports car still provides the driver a stable and poised handling and making the car itself playful and very responsive. All these are due to its engine components plus a tight rack and pinion steering unit.

Same Day Car Parts gives customers, Mercedes Benz owners, and enthusiasts the finest Mercedes Benz replacement and performance parts that are unmatched anywhere else. By simply visiting the Same Day Car Parts site, visitors can choose from its extensive stock of Mercedes Benz parts, accessories, body parts, replacement parts, engine parts, floor mats, grilles, interior parts, repair kits, seats, and wheels just to name a few. These are available for customers in great discounts and wholesale deals. Same Day Car Parts also has customer service staff available. They have been specially trained so as to offer product excellence and customer satisfaction to Mercedes Benz enthusiasts around the world 24 hours a day.
</p>


