Title: 
The Story Behind the Mazda Navajo

Word Count:
526

Summary:
One of the vehicles that is running under the Mazda brand and name is the Mazda Navajo. This is a sports utility vehicle that made its public debut in 1991. It held two doors and was made available only as a four wheel drive. The Mazda Navajo, as compared to the Ford Explorer, has a different grille, different tail lights, as well as different wheels.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda Navajo,Mazda parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">	
In 1920, Jujiro Matsuda founded Mazda as the Toyo Cork Kogyo Co., Ltd. It has been said that the mission of this vehicle manufacturer is to design and craft vehicles that are unique and different from the rest. If one would notice, the company has certainly put that in mind and has achieved such. Around the world and throughout the years, their cars has reached popularity status and rewarding recognition. 

From manufacturing machine tools, Mazda, then known as the Toyo Cork Kogyo Co., Ltd. shifted to producing automobiles instead. The first vehicle that the company introduced to the automobile world is the Mazda-Go. This made its debut in 1931 and was a vehicle with three wheels. The recognition for Mazda as an automaker and crafter however came later in 1960. This came with the production of the company’s first vehicle with four wheels which was the Mazda R380 coupe. Come the 1980s, the Ford Motor Company noticed Mazda. Later on, the former included Mazda as their business partner and technological partner. 

One of the vehicles that is running under the Mazda brand and name is the Mazda Navajo. This is a sports utility vehicle that made its public debut in 1991. It held two doors and was made available only as a four wheel drive. People have said that the Mazda Navajo is a rebadged Ford Explorer in essence. This vehicle is only sold exclusively to the United States. 

The Mazda Navajo, as compared to the Ford Explorer, has a different grille, different tail lights, as well as different wheels. However, the only differences between the two vehicles’ interiors are the seat fabrics and the steering wheel hub. The rest matches each other like a long lost relative. This vehicle make is offered in two trim levels which comprise of the base and the LX. The base level was simpler than the LX and held power windows, power locks, and power mirrors as standard features. The LX, on the other hand, was more spruced up through the adding up of extra interior illumination, as well as a steering wheel wrapped in leather. For people and customers who would like to add up the features that the Mazda Navajo has, there are various packages available that has luxuries and comfort with it. The list includes air conditioning, a stereo system with cassette deck, a cruise control system, sport seats with power lumbar adjustment, as well as a pop-up and removable moonroof. 

When maintaining a Mazda vehicle like the Mazda Navajo, it is important to get the best possible parts to achieve the best possible results in performance and comfort. A Mazda owner must be as discriminating as possible when choosing replacement parts for his car. A good choice of an auto parts supplier is thus very significant. Pick an auto parts store that has a good reputation. Go online and browse through the many online stores offering excellent parts. One of the best online parts suppliers is Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts. One can simply go online and check out Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts’ online collection of the best and quality Mazda parts.
</p>


