Title: 
The Luxury Of The Volvo 740

Word Count:
304

Summary:
When someone says Volvo, the image of both safety and power come to mind. Volvo has developed a solid reputation for these characteristics. However, many of you may not know where and how the company began. 

The original Volvo Company was started in Sweden in 1927. “Safety cage and crumple zones” was their motto and this sparked the interest of consumers who were in their 60’s. As now, back then their focus was on the security and safety of all their passengers. 

In 199...


Keywords:



Article Body:
When someone says Volvo, the image of both safety and power come to mind. Volvo has developed a solid reputation for these characteristics. However, many of you may not know where and how the company began. 

The original Volvo Company was started in Sweden in 1927. “Safety cage and crumple zones” was their motto and this sparked the interest of consumers who were in their 60’s. As now, back then their focus was on the security and safety of all their passengers. 

In 1998, Volvo was acquired by the Ford Motor Company to become a member of its Premier Automotive Group. That has proved to be a great investment for Ford. 

One of Volvo’s vehicles, the Volvo 740, which was produced from 1984 up until 1992, was said to have a lifespan of a decade. Over the years Volvo has actually been powered by many different engines, such as the four-cylinder in-line OHC, 986 cc or 2,316 cc, six-cylinder in-line 2,383 cc Turbo Diesel. 

In 1985 the Volvo 740 SE was introduced. It had fewer options as compared to the Volvo 740 model. But it was a great start for the Swedish manufacturer since it was actually supposed to be a midsize car that offered more style, performance and overall luxury. It had been offered as a four door sedan; initially it was known as the 744. And the five-door wagon was known as the 745. Though production stopped in 1992, the older models were useful. They provided engineering information as well as components, such as the vehicle’s engine, transmission, chassis and many other important parts. This was used when the Volvo 940 was being built.

If you own a Volvo I don’t have to convince you about its luxury and style. You already know how great it is. Now you just know where Volvo started out and how they have successfully changed over the years.


