Title: 
The Five Years of the Daewoo Lanos

Word Count:
391

Summary:
The Daewoo Lanos has actually been crafted in two versions, as mentioned, the hatchback and the sedan. The wheelbase of the vehicle is some 99.2 inches, and it stands 56.4 inches and is 66.1 inches wide. Manufactured by Daewoo, the Daewoo Lanos has been in production starting from 1997. The Daewoo Lanos is indeed a subcompact car. It has been said that the Daewoo Lanos is a small car.


Keywords:
auto parts,Daewoo,Daewoo Lanos,Daewoo parts,Daewoo accessories,bumpers,radiators,wheels


Article Body:
Owning up to an overall length of only 160.4 inches for the hatchback version and only 166.8 inches for the sedan version, the Daewoo Lanos has been considered to be one of the smallest cars in the business. But do not think it is much smaller than one of the smallest cars, the Mini Cooper. The Daewoo Lanos is not that small. 

The Daewoo Lanos has actually been crafted in two versions, as mentioned, the hatchback and the sedan. The hatchback holds two doors while there are four doors for the sedan version. The wheelbase of the vehicle is some 99.2 inches, and it stands 56.4 inches and is 66.1 inches wide. Its fuel tank can take in some 12.8 gallons of gas and both versions can actually seat and take in five passengers. 

Manufactured by Daewoo, the Daewoo Lanos has been in production starting from 1997. However, this vehicle line’s saga ended after a couple of years in 2002. When its production was halted, the space and niche that it left blank was filled in by the Daewoo Kalos late in the year 2002. It has been said that its competition were actually the Toyota Echo, the Hyundai Accent, the Suzuki Swift, the Dodge/Plymouth Neon, the Ford Focus, the Ford Escort/ZX2, the Honda Civic, and the Kia Rio. The Hyundai Accent was considered to be the Daewoo Lanos’ main competition. 

The Daewoo Lanos is indeed a subcompact car. The design and style that it sported was the masterpiece of Giorgetto Giugiaro. The power of this vehicle came from the GM Family 1 D-TEC engines. These engines ranged from a 1.5 L SOHC to a 1.6 L DOHC. These engines were dual-overhead and held four cylinders. Each were offered to work with either a five speed manual shift transmission system or the optional four speed automatic transmission system. 

It has been said that the Daewoo Lanos is a small car. However, this was possibly on the basis that it is the smallest vehicle of the trio of passenger cars that came out to the automobile market in the year 1999 from its manufacturer, Daewoo. It was a front wheel drive vehicle and it was made available in three trim levels which comprised of the S, the SE, and the SX. The latter was considered to be the top of the line trim level among all three levels of the Daewoo Lanos.


