Title: 
The Real Deal with Oxygen Sensors

Word Count:
501

Summary:
An oxygen sensor is a vital part of your Suzuki vehicle. After all, it is mainly one of the important parts responsible for keeping a vehicle’s gas mileage low. According to manufacturers of oxygen sensors, this part of the vehicle is one of the key components of the total performance of a vehicle.


Keywords:
auto parts,Suzuki parts,Suzuki accessories,oxygen sensor


Article Body:
An oxygen sensor is a vital part of your Suzuki vehicle. After all, it is mainly one of the important parts responsible for keeping a vehicle’s gas mileage low. If you have not known yet, oxygen sensors are also known by other names. It also goes by the names O2 sensor, lambda sensor, lambda probe, lambda sensor, lambda sond, or EGO sensor which stands for exhaust gas oxygen sensor. 

What is the oxygen sensor? It is a small sensor. This is found inserted into the Suzuki vehicles, or any vehicles for that matter, exhaust system. This is usually found in vehicles which have petrol engines. What this part does is it measures the concentration of oxygen that is found in the exhaust gas. By doing such, it actually allows the vehicle’s electronic control unit, or much known as ECU, to control the efficiency of the combustion process in the engine. 

According to manufacturers of oxygen sensors, this part of the vehicle is one of the key components of the total performance of a vehicle. These parts may be small, just around the size of a clothes pin, but they do a great deal by monitoring the engine exhaust of your vehicle. And the engine exhaust is one of the most common causes of air pollution if not monitored well. 

By continually determining the amount of oxygen in the exhaust, it also monitors the exhaust gases. The engine computer is then alerted to adjust the air and fuel ratio so much so that the gasoline combustion is complete. In the same process, the harmful emissions are lessened. Also, the engine performance and efficiency is improved. 

According to Church Ruth, the general product manager of Bosch which is one of the manufacturers of oxygen sensors, “Studies shows that two thirds of all vehicle emissions test failures are a result of worn out oxygen sensors. Those numbers are staggering when you consider that oxygen sensors are easy enough to replace and that the vast majority of them are also inexpensive, costing roughly $20 to $50.”

The common signs and symptoms that your vehicle needs an oxygen sensor replacement? Well, you will notice that your Suzuki has excessive fuel consumption. It also gives off high emissions of gas. The engine surges or hesitates. Also, there is a premature failure of the catalytic converter. What you should do is try to look at the oxygen sensor itself. If you notice that there is a shiny deposit on the heat shield or any kind of gummy or gooey deposit, it simply means that you should replace your oxygen sensor already. 

High maintenance costs can be actually avoided by purchasing top of the line body parts from auto parts sources like Auto Parts Discount. They actually have been in the industry for years and it has certainly proven client patronage. Assistance is also available for customers who are in the dark regarding their oxygen sensor purchases, Suzuki parts purchases, or any other products that they have in store.


