Title: 
The 1966 Pontiac GTO

Word Count:
394

Summary:
What is the most popular muscle car of all time that goes zero to sixty in 6.5 seconds flat? 

The answer is, the 1966 Pontiac GTO which is a choice muscle car. In fact, when it was released, it quickly became the best selling muscle car of all time. With the ’66 GTO, Pontiac truly created a new masterpiece that has remained in high demand amongst muscle car enthusiasts for nearly four decades. 

The ’66 GTO has incredible features. Most notable are the unique headlights ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
What is the most popular muscle car of all time that goes zero to sixty in 6.5 seconds flat? 

The answer is, the 1966 Pontiac GTO which is a choice muscle car. In fact, when it was released, it quickly became the best selling muscle car of all time. With the ’66 GTO, Pontiac truly created a new masterpiece that has remained in high demand amongst muscle car enthusiasts for nearly four decades. 

The ’66 GTO has incredible features. Most notable are the unique headlights and the exceptional contours throughout the body that are the true definition of the term sleek. Of course, being a muscle car, the ’66 Pontiac GTO came in a variety of colors and styles when it was produced including the sports coupe model, the hardtop coupe and the convertible. 

If you are shopping for a ’66 Pontiac GTO muscle car, it is probably useful for you to know that the hardtop coupes are the most common, followed by the convertibles. Comparably, there were a lot fewer sports coupe models made, so they are by far the rarest. 

Pontiac’s GTO line gained popularity with the release of their 1964 model with its racy style, its powerful V8 engine, and its dual exhaust system. Though it had phony hood scoops, it was definitely a muscle car with an attitude. The ’66 model had a lot of the same features as the ’64, but being the second body style for Pontiac’s GTO line, it redefined style with pizzazz.

The ’66 GTO most commonly has a four-barrel 389 engine, but there was also a tri-power option. After its release, Pontiac added an XS Ram Air package to the tri-power engine giving it a hotter cam and greater power – close to 380 hp – truly ideal for a muscle car. The XS Ram Air package upgrade included the cam and stiffer valve springs along with an accessory pack that enabled the decorative hood scoop to be converted into a functional cold-air induction system. There are very few 1966 Pontiac GTOs that have the XS Ram Air setup, so they are definitely unique muscle cars for a muscle car collector. 

In regard to muscle cars, there are many that are strongly desired by muscle car enthusiasts. The 1966 Pontiac GTO just happens to be a favorite for many. Style, performance and originality are among the traits that make the 1966 Pontiac GTO one of the hottest muscle cars around.


