Title: 
The Auto Blog: Auto Parts Train’s venture into the Growing Blogosphere

Word Count:
234

Summary:
Ever since the first blogs went online back in 1995, blogs have become one of the most popular means of communication and source of information. Auto Parts Train, the leading online retailer of high quality replacement and collision parts recognizes the growing importance of blogs.


Keywords:
auto blog,auto parts,automotive news,automotive events,car reviews,aftermarket auto parts,auto accessories


Article Body:
Ever since the first blogs went online back in 1995, blogs have become one of the most popular means of communication and source of information. Auto Parts Train, the leading online retailer of high quality replacement and collision parts recognizes the growing importance of blogs. Thus, in response, the company has launched its venture into the growing community that is called the Blogosphere. Succinctly named as The Auto Blog, the Auto Parts Train Blog offers news, reviews, advice and discussions on anything about the automobile and the automotive industry. 

Blog entries are conveniently classified into nine categories including Automotive News, Auto Parts Train News, Car Reviews, Aftermarket Parts and Accessories, Automotive Events, Auto Parts, Automotive Trends and Innovations and Automotive Technology. The Auto Blog has been online for three months now and it has already gained a modest following especially among Auto Parts Train’s loyal customers. Even though the Auto Blog is primarily targeted towards Parts Train’s visitors, its wide range of topics will certainly appeal to anyone with the slightest interest on automotive topics.

As of now, Auto Part Train’s Auto Blog is still a fledgling blog compared to other more established blogs focused on automotive topics. However, the Auto Blog holds a lot of promise and is expected to grow even more extensive in due time. Already, the blog has scored a number of good reviews from blog review sites.


