Title: 
Things to remember while selling your car

Word Count:
402

Summary:
This articles sheds light on a few essential points you must keep in mind while selling your used car.


Keywords:
sell my car, sell car online, buy and sell car, sell junk car, sell my car for cash, old car for sell


Article Body:
The main reason why people go in for selling their car is to buy a better model or something a little classier. One must do a bit of homework before going into trying to sell the car to the first interested party. You should note down details pertaining to your car such as the model, how old is it, how many miles you have driven, the popularity of the car now and ofcourse the amount of repair works you have done on it.  Cars that have been owner driven are said to fetch a better price than those driven by chauffeurs, simply because this directly reflects on the condition of the car.

While getting down to calculating the asking price, it is important to be clear about what it really is worth, no point in demanding a price that is not reasonable. If any major paint work or repair has been carried out, make sure to include that in the price as well. Any extra fittings or accessories that you have installed needs to be highlighted so the buyer knows he is getting more than just a used car. Also there is no harm in quoting a price higher than what you are likely to get as this makes way for some negotiation. So, once all the details are clear you can either put up a For Sale sign on your car or place a detailed advertisement in the paper or on the internet. But you must be patient and willing to spend time and energy in sorting through the applications you receive and meet the interested buyers before closing the deal. 

It also pays to spend a little in making the car look good and appealing, also get someone you know to drive it around. They just might spot that odd sound or something that was not right which you might have overlooked and that needs to be fixed. Apart from these keep all related documents on hand, and incase you don’t have the registration document, obtain a copy of the same before the sale is complete. And do check with the prospective buyer if he has a valid driver’s license and go along on the test drive. All this will put your mind at ease regarding the person and give you a chance to get to know them better; answering any queries he might have in the process.


