Title: 
Things To Keep In Mind When Shopping for a Used Car

Word Count:
759

Summary:
Purchasing a new car can be a difficult and daunting task if you have no idea what you're getting into. Thankfully, there are a number of useful bits of advice that can apply to any situation you might encounter and are designed to help you keep a level head. Most of those bits of advice are merely common sense, but salesmen are known for getting around that.


Keywords:
car accident, cramps, muscle spasms, anxiety, stress, fear and anxiety, anxiety and phobias, lower back pain, stress and anxiety, chronic pain


Article Body:
Obtaining a used car can be a bit of an exercise in navigation if you're unaware of how things go about. There are several factors to consider when purchasing a used car, such as damage left over from a car accident and the potential for stress if you can't make your payments. You may even end up having to consider whether or not you're likely to get cramps or muscle spasms because the interior is too damn small for your body build. For some people, the stress relief factor of having a car might end up being overruled by the stress of being in the car for extended periods. As such, there are usually a number of things that one has to keep in mind when purchasing a used car.

First and foremost, a prospective buyer ought to know his or her capacity to pay for the car. This does not only mean covering the down payment, but also includes whatever payments you have to make on a monthly basis. Long-term considerations of the costs of purchasing and maintaining a car – used or brand new – can save you a lot of stress and anxiety later on. Consider the stability of your financial state and whether or not you can afford the car in the foreseeable future based on your current financial condition. Spare yourself the stress and try not to hope that your condition will improve when you purchase a car that's just out of your current price range. After all, you're not paying for the car in the future. You're paying for it in the here and now.

If you think you can handle the purchase or you've got a good enough credit rating, then your next worry should be what type of car you want. Be sure to consider things like muscle cramps and chronic pain when checking the interior. It simply will not do if you've got a fancy Ferrari in your garage but you feel crippling lower back pain each time you take it out for a spin. Also, be sure to consider whether the car is suited for your needs and the needs of the people who will be using it with you. If you're a family man, a car with a lot of room can save you stress and headaches from kids complaining that there's not enough room. Smaller, flashier cars with a lot of speed would probably be better for bachelors trying to impress that potential Ms. Right. People just trying to get from Point A to Point B would be better off getting a reliable but unremarkable model.

The third thing on your mind ought to be where you're buying the car, and whether the seller can be trusted. We've all heard the stories about unscrupulous, double-dealing used car dealers. Some people have even gone so far as to claim they've developed anxiety and phobias around used car dealers because of those stories. True or not, it pays dividends to take precautions when purchasing a used auto. Examine whatever reputation or records you can get about the dealership you're getting the car from and make sure you're confident and not feeling any anxiety towards making the purchase. Provided the dealership has a good record and they've got a reasonable price for the model you're looking for, you probably shouldn't feel too much anxiety prior to inspecting the car.

It is critical that you examine the car in person before you pay for it, or even agree to anything. Check for anything that might indicate poor maintenance, mishandling, or even repairs done after a car accident. Most aspects of a car can be repaired after a car accident, but even if you replace some parts, the performance might never be the same. It doesn't help that poor maintenance can mean a higher chance of you getting into a car accident because the last owner didn't know the difference between an axle and a gasket. Save yourself the possibility of exorbitant medical bills and anxiety by giving the car a good once-over, making sure to inspect everything you can without having to tear it apart.

In the end, getting a used car can be a bit of a daunting prospect if you're unprepared. So you'd best do a little research before you go dipping your hand into the cookie jar. Keep the above bits of advice in mind because very talented used car salesmen can find ways to circumvent a person's common sense and dupe you into buying a flashy piece of junk.


