Title: 
Thoughts On A Challenging Custom Car Audio Job

Word Count:
360

Summary:
Could a car owner have custom car audio added to a vehicle with “lambo doors”? That question has popped into the head of a freelance writer in California. The writer has previously witnessed all of the operations involved in the process of adding custom car audio to a Jeep Cherokee. Now she has learned that car owners are being encouraged to get Lamborghini-like doors.

That freelance writer hesitates to imagine what she may next find in her driveway. In November of 2005 th...


Keywords:
custom car audio


Article Body:
Could a car owner have custom car audio added to a vehicle with “lambo doors”? That question has popped into the head of a freelance writer in California. The writer has previously witnessed all of the operations involved in the process of adding custom car audio to a Jeep Cherokee. Now she has learned that car owners are being encouraged to get Lamborghini-like doors.

That freelance writer hesitates to imagine what she may next find in her driveway. In November of 2005 the writer found two young adult males using her driveway as the site for the addition of custom car audio. One of those two lads had taken a course on auto mechanics with the former instructor at Culver City High School, a school close to Sony studios. He had agreed to share his knowledge with the writer’s son. Hence, the two of them had commenced the long process required to complete a custom car audio job.

At one point the writer’s son called to his mother and invited her to come outside and to see for herself what her son and his friend were doing. What that writer saw was two car doors with the “stuffing” pulled out of them. The quest for a custom car audio system had led those two young men to place speakers in the doors of the Jeep Cherokee.

The two “stereo specialists” did not show the writer how they had wired the speakers to the power source and to the amplifier. Their failure to grant the writer a look at their wiring operations has caused that writer to now ponder on a particular question: Could a vehicle with car speakers in the doors also have “lambo doors”? In other words, could a car owner who enjoyed the sound delivered by custom car audio logically expect to add “lambo doors” to that same car?

The writer has seen pictures that show how the “lambo doors” swing upward, instead of swinging out. Wiring speakers into such doors would seem to present a real challenge. Could one have custom car audio in a car with such doors? One writer in California wants to know.


