Title: 
Through the Centuries with the Buick Century

Word Count:
527

Summary:
The very first time that the Buick Century made its way on the automotive jungle, this vehicle actually took the place and niche of the Buick Series 60. The most recent Buick Century has been constructed to be a midsize sedan. It sports the look that has been compared to an elegant maiden that has beautiful features wrapped in fine simplicity which is a very uplifting description indeed.


Keywords:
auto parts,Buick,Buick century


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
Under the umbrella of the General Motors, the Buick Motor Division is very much responsible for the Buick Century. This model of vehicles is a line of full size performance vehicles that had ran from 1936 to 1942 as well as in 1954 to 1958. The vehicle brand, Buick, also used the name Buick Century in 1973 to 2004 for its value-added intermediate line of cars. 

The very first time that the Buick Century made its way on the automotive jungle, this vehicle actually took the place and niche of the Buick Series 60. This happened when the Buick division decided to rename the whole model line up for the 1936 model year. This was due to the celebration of engineering improvements and design advancements. What actually happened to the Buick Century was that it was a combination and concoction of the shorter Buick Special bodies’ wheelbase to the Buick’s engine that holds eight cylinders. During this era, the Buick Century was actually the fastest in its brand line up. It was capable of performing under sustained speeds. Because of this fact, the vehicle was dubbed as the “banker’s hotrod”. 

The most recent Buick Century has been constructed to be a midsize sedan. It sports the look that has been compared to an elegant maiden that has beautiful features wrapped in fine simplicity which is a very uplifting description indeed. The Buick Century exudes also a look that says elegance and sophistication. It certainly is one vehicle that stands out from among its competitors. Its ride quality is very much outstanding. It provides a very soft, smooth and quiet performance. And through all these, it also gives its driver and its passenger’s utmost and great care, comfort, and convenience during the ride.

Before any great changes were done, the Buick Century came simply with a longer intermediate front wheel drive system. It also was offered as a couple, sedan, and station wagon although the latter was crossed out from the list later on. It holds grilles, turn signals, airbags for the driver’s side, body colored rub strips, a traction control, a tire inflation monitor, suspension, and side moldings. It also previously held a V6 engine with engine coolant that was guaranteed to last for five years. 

This vehicle is mostly appealing to people who are more leaning towards old-fashioned bench seats. It also is a good means of transportation for it has the capacity to take in a maximum of six adults in its cabin. It also holds the typical Buick luxury plus some added features like a keyless entry system, a dual zone climate control, programmable door locks, as well as a CD player. Rumors have it that the Buick Century is nearing another complete overhaul. 

To preserve the amazing performance and luxury of the Buick Century as well as other Buick vehicles, a one of a kind online store is able to provide customers with super durable Buick parts with an equally impressive performance. Interested parties can simply visit Auto Accessories Giant. It is a hassle free online store for shopping for auto parts that will make the Buick Century live up to its name. 
</p>


