Title: 
Time To Pump Some Gas

Word Count:
383

Summary:
Is your fuel indicator in your dashboard informing and signaling you that it needs a little refilling? Is it telling you that its reserve of fuel has already gone low? Well, if it is, then it is them time to drive off to a gasoline station for some refueling.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volkswagen performance parts,Honda,Honda parts,Honda body parts,Honda accessories,Volkswagen accessories


Article Body:
Is your fuel indicator in your dashboard informing and signaling you that it needs a little refilling? Is it telling you that its reserve of fuel has already gone low? Well, if it is, then it is them time to drive off to a gasoline station for some refueling. 

Of course, not all gasoline stations have attendants who would do all the refilling for you. There are some stations that are self-service. This means that you would have to do the pumping for gas on your own. Refilling your own gas for your car is simple and easy. There is no need to worry about it. 

You should first figure out which side of your car holds the key to your gas tank. And when you have done so, you should be able to park your car where the fill spout is facing the pump where you would be getting your gas. The logic behind this is very simple: it would not be difficult to refill your gas tank this way. 

When you have parked your car with the fill spout right in front of the gas pump, it is time to turn off your car’s engine and get out of your car. You should open your gas tank door. Some cars’ tank doors can be opened with a button from the inside of your car. However, there are also some that can be opened with a key. When you have successfully opened it, you should unscrew the cap of the gas tank. 

Then, pay for the gas. If you are paying with a credit card, you can simply run the card through the machine. If not, you would have to see the attendant first. When you have done so, then follow the printed instructions which are usually found posted near the machine. Then select the type of gas that you would be filling up for your vehicle. Make sure you know what kind of fuel your car runs on. Then lift the handle of the gas off and insert it into the gas tank. Push it in firmly so that it is secure and that no gas could escape. Then, you can start filling in your gas. Once filled up, it is time to put the gas tank cap back in.


