Title: 
Time To Change Batteries

Word Count:
493

Summary:
Your car would actually not start without a battery and this simply goes to illustrate just how important this part is. It is your car’s main power source. Your car’s battery actually functions to supply electric energy to your starter motor as well as the ignition system.


Keywords:
auto parts,starter,ignition wire set,accessories,baterries


Article Body:
One of the major components of your car is the battery. Imagine just how your car would start if it had no battery. Well, your car would actually not start without a battery and this simply goes to illustrate just how important this part is. It is your car’s main power source. 

Your car’s battery actually functions to supply electric energy to your starter motor as well as the ignition system. These two mentioned parts are found in your vehicle’s engine. However, the life of batteries do not last that long. If you do pick a quality one, you might be able to have it for around 60 months, that is if you use it properly. Otherwise, you might be only able to use it for less than that amount of time. 

Now, if you do have a battery that just would not function anymore, then it is time to replace it. In just a couple of steps, you can do this thing yourself and you need not ask for assistance or service from any mechanic or auto center personnel. However, keep in mind that a car’s battery has corrosive elements that could be harmful to you and your car so be careful when changing your car’s battery. 

You should be able to start the whole scheme by turning your car’s engine off and locating the battery under the hood. To detach the negative battery cable, which is the black one, from the battery, you should first loosen the nut using a combination wrench. After doing such, twist it and pull up on the end of the cable with your hand. If your battery has been there long enough, there might be some need for you to provided greater force and pry the cable end loose using a screwdriver. Do the same steps in removing the positive cable which is the red one. 

Remove the battery hold-down clamp with the assistance of a combination wrench. You can also use a socket and a ratchet for this task. Then, your battery should be loose by this time so you can now take it out of the tray. Be sure to grab them firmly from the bottom for they can be quite heavy. 

When the battery has been removed, check the battery tray and hold-down clamp. If there are any signs of corrosion and dirt, clean them up first. You can use water as well as a wire brush to make it clean. You should also clean the battery cable connectors. 

With everything clean, it is now time to put in the new battery. Put the new one in the tray and secure using the clamp. Attach and tighten the battery cables and make sure that you attach the positive ends first followed by the negative ones. Before putting down the hood, check first if all the connections are tight. Remember that loose connections equate to your car not starting.


