Title: 
Tips to sell your car

Word Count:
511

Summary:
Are you looking to sell your car? Selling a car is not that difficult as one feels. All you need is proper guidance and a perfect deal. You can deal, either by selling your car privately or by having a trade with a car dealer. Both the ways of selling cars have their own pros and cons. It is up to you to decide which one is the best for you.


Keywords:
tips to sell your car,set car price,sell your car,car cub appeal


Article Body:
Are you looking to sell your car? Selling a car is not that difficult as one feels. All you need is proper guidance and a perfect deal. You can deal, either by selling your car privately or by having a trade with a car dealer. Both the ways of selling cars have their own pros and cons. It is up to you to decide which one is the best for you.

Have a look at step by step guidance to sell your car.

1) Place an Advertisement for your car: Firstly you need to place an advertisement that you are selling your car. Placing ad is very important as every one will know that you are selling your car. Through advertisements, you will find more customers for your car. You need to place an ad that sells your car. You need to provide detail information about your car. This includes the car model, date of manufacture and so on. 

2) Set car price: Setting price is very important. You have to consider many things before setting a price such as condition of the car, region where it is being sold. Always set the price more than your asking price. So that even if the buyer bargains you will get the required amount. 

3) Give your car curb appeal: You need to ensure that your car is in proper condition before you sell it. You need to wash and color the car to make it look more attractive. If you want to make your car look new you can also clean the tires, mirrors, brake dust with a special fluid called Armor All. Make sure that your car is mechanically sound and in good condition. You can get a mechanic check of the car and issue a report about its functioning. 

4) Show the car to your buyer: Once you start getting buyers you need to make the buyer feel comfortable and answer their questions firmly. You can ask them to take a test-drive of your car. Show them the reports of the condition of the car. If they insist of getting it rechecked by a mechanic, allow they to do the same. Always remember that first impression is your last impression. So be sure as to how you present yourself.

5) Negotiate for the best price: You need to negotiate with the buyer to get the best price for the car. It may be possible that the buyer puts forward a very low price. This is the time when you have to make yourself firm and try to get the best price. You need to tell him about the positive points of your car. Do not haste as there may be a higher deal waiting just behind.

6) Finalizing the deal: At the time of finalizing the deal you need to check the laws governing the sale of motor vehicles. Depending upon the laws of your state you need to finalize the deal. Once you receive the money from the buyer sign the title over to the buyer. You can also provide them with a sale bill.


