Title: 
Tires, Living Longer Lives

Word Count:
297

Summary:
While driving, if you notice that your car is going to one direction even if you are driving on a straight road, then would be the time to have the wheels aligned. By doing such, you are driving much safely and you also are lessening the pressure on the tires thus making them last longer.


Keywords:
auto parts,Dodge,Dodge parts,Dodge truck accessories,Dodge accessories


Article Body:
Your car’s tires are those rubber things that serve as the in-between between your car and you and the wide open road. In fact, these tires actually give you much comfort than you expect them to give you. You do not feel much of the bumps and potholes on the road because of these tires. 

With this in mind, it is important that you do take good care of your tires. In fact, you would not want to be driving a car that has worn out tires in it. You see, having a car with worn out tires could lead to having a car suffering from major problems. Aside from this, your chances of meeting a flat tire or having one of your tires blow up would be much greater. That is why it is important for you to maintain them. In fact, the more you take good care of them, the more and the longer they will live. 

At least once a month, you should check their pressure. All tires should be checked. To be sure that you have put in the right amount of pressure, check your car owner’s manual. You may also find the information regarding this stamped on the side of the tire. Make sure that you do not under inflate them or over inflate them. 

While driving, if you notice that your car is going to one direction even if you are driving on a straight road, then would be the time to have the wheels aligned. By doing such, you are driving much safely and you also are lessening the pressure on the tires thus making them last longer. You should also have the wheels checked and balanced if you do feel consistent vibrations while driving at certain speeds.


