Title: 
Touring the Cadillac CTS

Word Count:
408

Summary:
The Cadillac CTS actually stands for “Catera Touring Sedan”. It holds four doors and has the capacity to take in a maximum of five passengers in its spacious cabin. This vehicle rolled off the Cadillac manufacturing plants using the General Motors’ new Sigma rear wheel drive architecture. To give credit to its brand name, this vehicle was nominated in 2002 for the North American Car of the Year award.


Keywords:
auto parts,Cadillac,Cadillac accessories,Cadillac cts


Article Body:
Cadillac’s luxury sports sedan, the Cadillac CTS has been bringing fame to its brand as well as unforgettable experiences for its drivers and passengers. The Cadillac CTS actually stands for “Catera Touring Sedan”. It holds four doors and has the capacity to take in a maximum of five passengers in its spacious cabin. This vehicle has also been made available in two trims which comprise of the 2.8 L Sedan, and the 3.6 L Sedan. 

Upon its introduction, the Cadillac CTS 2.8 L Sedan comes equipped with the standard 2.8 liter V6 engine that is very much capable of providing some 210 units of horsepower. It also gives the Cadillac CTS the chance to achieve 17 mpg for city driving and 27 mpg on the highway. As per the Cadillac CTS 3.6 L Sedan, this vehicle comes with a standard 3.6 liter V6 engine capable of making 255 horsepower. It can give the Cadillac CTS a chance to roll along with 17 mpg in the city and 27 mpg on the highway. Standard for both of these trim levels is a six speed manual transmission system with overdrive. Given as an option is a five speed automatic transmission system with overdrive. 

This vehicle rolled off the Cadillac manufacturing plants using the General Motors’ new Sigma rear wheel drive architecture. To give credit to its brand name, this vehicle was nominated in 2002 for the North American Car of the Year award. Trivia has it that the Cadillac CTS was seen extensively in one of the car chase sequences in the 2003 movie, The Matrix Reloaded. Because of that stint, the first photographs of this vehicle were from that movie. 

The Cadillac CTS comes in a package of features. For exterior colors, this luxury sports sedan could come in painted with light platinum, black raven, blackberry, blue chip, infrared, radiant bronze, sand storm, silver smoke, stealth gray, or white diamond. As per the interior, it could be ebony, light gray/ebony, or cashmere. Standard equipment for this includes driver and front passenger frontal air bags, head curtain side impact air bags, an AM/FM stereo with CD player, a digital clock, an auto tone control, an automatic volume, a Radio Data System, four wheel anti lock brakes, a dual-zone automatic climate controls, a cruise control system, power door locks, fog lamps, daytime running lamps, halogen headlamps, a wood trim for the interior, power adjustable and heated mirrors, the OnStar system, a remote keyless entry system, seat controls, and the XM Satellite Radio.


