Title: 
Toyota Celicas - Are They Viable Sports Cars?

Word Count:
585

Summary:
An informational article about Toyota Celicas, along with a few opinions on the car itself. Find out what they are lacking and what they do well in. If you are looking to learn more about the Toyota Celica, then this article is for you.


Keywords:
black toyota celica, toyota celicas, toyota celica, toyota celica for sale


Article Body:
Toyota Celicas have been around for quite some time now. Not quite as old as the Ford Pinto, but you know what I mean. Celicas have always been known for being the affordable sports car made by Toyota.

But, whats so special about this car? When in comparison to other similar priced cars, their quickness is no where near the performance that other cars can produce.

Not only that, Honda's and Scion's have much more aftermarket parts availiable for tricking out your ride. So, once in a while you'll see a Black Toyota Celica in a street race, but if your a true racer, you're not afraid of the Celica.

Modified Honda's or Scion's, even Chevy's will blow away the Toyota. But that doesn't stop Toyota lovers from their Celicas. Of course, they have their parts for modding, and they look pretty sweet, but when it comes down to racing, they just don't cut it.

It's not very common to see a Toyota Celica For Sale nowadays, it seems like they have all disappeared off the market. Unforunately for the United States, we get the shaft as the imported Celica's can be quite beastly.

But, for Americans, it seems that all of the import cars get dumbed down when they come to America to comply with our sorry standards for safety, when in reality it is just stupid drivers that cause all the havoc.

Eighty-five year olds that can't see 15 feet in front of them should not be driving anymore, and this society allows for practically every elder to own a license, and then there are those that are too stubborn to quit, even when they know they shouldn't be driving.

The United States is full of ignorance, if you were to take that all away, along with a harsher drivers license requirements, all of the really cool import cars that can pick up speed like no other might actually be legal.

But, of course, it just doesn't work that way. But, lets get back to Toyota Celicas. If your really interested in a Celica, it's not like they are bad cars in anyways, but when compared to other sports and racing cars these days, they just can't compete.

Toyota makes great cars, you can almost always rely on them that you are going to get a quality car that will last you a long time, and they've proven that over the years.

If you like the car, by all means go for it. You can find a Toyota Celica For Sale quite easy, although they don't come in the numbers that say a Honda Civic might. 

They have decent performance for the gas milage they get, and they have a unique style to them. You definitely won't find any other car that looks like the Celica, they are quite easy to point out, even in the older years.

Although, there are way too many Red Celicas in the world right now, it would be a lot nicer if they were black, because if you've seen a nice black one, then you've seen a nice Celica. The red ones are too flashy for their own good, they are nice cars, but not that nice.

All in all, I think Toyota Celicas are quality cars, driveable, and reliable, but if you plan on racing one of these babies, you should prepare yourself to lose quite a bit, or be willing to put a lot of time and effort into modifications to compete with the big boys.


