Title: 
Types of Air Filters for Your Vehicle

Word Count:
455

Summary:
Paper or plastic? Those are your choices at the supermarket check out. Disposable or recyclable? Those are your choices when it comes to purchasing your car's next air filter. Please read on to learn about the differences between the two and how your decision can impact your car's performance, the environment, and your wallet.


Keywords:
Bosch air filters, auto air filters, K&N air filters


Article Body:
How often do you replace your car’s air filter? Every 10 thousand miles? 12K? 15K? During the life of your car – assuming you plan on keeping your vehicle for many years – you could easily go through 8, 10, even 15 or more air filters. Of course, that is if you choose to purchase disposable air filters every time your shop. However, did you know that you now have another choice, in a reusable air filter, which costs a bit more but will likely outlast your car? Read on for an informative comparison of the two types of air filters available for your vehicle. 

If you maintain your own vehicle, you probably make regular trips to your auto parts store for oil, filters, wipers, and the occasional air filter. Concerning your air filter, your choices include Fram, ACDelco, Bosch, and Purolator air filters, all very well known and trusted brands. You are not likely to pay a whole lot for one, perhaps between $6 and $15, depending on your vehicle make, model, model year, and engine. For many people purchasing an air filter once a year is a simple procedure: see which one is on sale, buy it, toss the old one, and insert the new one. 

Consumers are now discovering an additional option to disposable air filters, one that race car owners have known about for ages: reusable air filters. That’s right, instead of paper air filters that must be changed regularly and can contribute to overflowing landfills, drivers can now purchase reusable air filters made of cotton gauze and aluminum wire mesh. These higher air flow filters provide excellent filtration and are designed to increase horsepower and acceleration. K&N, for example, sells a line of air filters that are warranted to last one million miles, can be cleaned as little as once every 50 thousand miles, and are emissions legal in all fifty US states. Prices for reusable air filters range from as little as $30 to approximately $60 or more. 

Besides the obvious environmental and performance benefits, a reusable air filter will save you a lot of money in the long run. For the owner of a car who keeps his vehicle for 150 thousand miles – not uncommon these days – he could easily replace his filter twelve times during the life of the car. If he pays $12 per air filter – an average price – his expenditure is $144 for the life of the car. A $50 reusable air filter is a one shot charge and can be recouped within the first few years of owning the car. 

Today, you have real choices when it comes to selecting an air filter for your car. Purchasing a reusable air filter is an environmentally responsible, cost effective, and power enhancing decision that you will never regret.


