Title: 
Ultimate Aero TT Breaks World Record

Word Count:
338

Summary:
This article tells the reader about the recent broken speed record set by the 2008 Aero TT.


Keywords:
exotic car, exotic car rental, luxury car, luxury car rental


Article Body:
The 2008 Ultimate Aero TT is the latest version by Shelby Super Cars (SSC). When the Ultimate Aero TT first made its debut many industry insiders felt that this vehicle would break the world speed record for production cars of 253.2 mph, set by the Bugatti Veyron 16.4. It wasn't long before they were proven right. The Ultimate Aero TT reached an unprecedented speed of 256.15 mph, making this lightweight, aerodynamic vehicle officially the "World's Fastest Production Car." 

Achieving tremendous power via its twin turbo V-8 engine, it produces 1,183 horsepower and 1,094 ft.-lbs. of torque. The speedometer on the car goes up to 260, and in sixth gear at 7,200 rpm; the TT's performance stats state that it exceeds 286 mph. 
The Ultimate Aero TT does zero to 60 mph in 2.78 seconds and a quarter mile in less than 10 seconds. It has a 422-pound V-8 engine with an aluminum block and heads. The four-wheel rocket redlines at 7,200 rpm, and the vehicle's horsepower is an incredible 1,183 at 6,950 rpm. It is a rear-wheel drive with a mid-engine position. The lightweight body is made of carbon fiber, composites, and a steel space frame. It sets on Michelin Pilot Sport PS2 tires, 19 by 9.5 inches in the front and 20 by 13 inches in the rear. The ride is controlled by unequal length upper and lower A-arms coil-over springs in the front and rear.

This politically incorrect beast vehicle- with a four-inch ground clearance- has a refined side too. The interior is both clean and chic. Even the roll bar enhances the lines of the cabin by matching the car's seats. There also is a high-end sound system and a DVD navigational system. It comes in 11 heavenly colors, including yellow, purple and plum. 
The Shelby name has been associated with classic, super-fast automobiles for decades. However, Carroll Shelby, the man who made the world think of cars instead of reptiles when referring to cobras or vipers, is not related whatsoever to Jarod Shelby, the owner of SSC and the designer of the Ultimate Aero TT. Maybe there is just something about that name?


