Title: 
Uncovering the GMC Canyon

Word Count:
364

Summary:
For 2006, the GMC Canyon comes with updates and changes. These changes include an addition of a passenger sensing air bag system. The list also includes a ZQ 8 Sport Suspension package, as well as the SLT Package. Added to its choice of colors is the new superior blue metallic exterior paint.


Keywords:
auto parts,GMC,GMC Canyon,GMC parts,GMC Envoy accessories,truck parts, off road accessories


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
The available trim levels for the GMC Canyon range from the Work Truck to the SLE 3. It sports two doors and has the capacity to take in a maximum of three passengers in its cabin. It is a compact pickup. 

During its introduction, this vehicle has been made available with a standard 2.8 liter I4 engine that could produce some 175 horsepower and could achieve 20 mpg in the city as well as some 27 mpg during highway driving. Made standard is a four speed automatic transmission system with overdrive. 

For 2006, the GMC Canyon comes with updates and changes. These changes include an addition of a passenger sensing air bag system. The list also includes a ZQ 8 Sport Suspension package, as well as the SLT Package. The GMC Canyon’s traction control also includes a new locking differential. The previous OnStar system found in earlier models had already been updated for now, this system provides a hands-free capability. Added to its choice of colors is the new superior blue metallic exterior paint. There also are changes in engine options that now includes a 2.8 liter 175 horsepower in line four cylinder engine, a 220 horsepower 3.5 liter in line five cylinder engine. 

The rest of the features for the GMC Canyon include a fleetside body, power front disc brakes, an F & R anti lock braking system, air conditioning, a digital clock with radio, two cup holders, power door locks, a driver’s information center, a keyless remote control entry system, an automatic headlamp control, two power outlets, power windows, a four wheel drive drivetrain, a 100 amp alternator, a 4.10 axle ratio, an HD 690 cca battery, a 19.0 gallon cap fuel tank, a tachometer, an electronic Insta-Trac transfer case, chrome F & R bumpers with rear step, a front underbody shield skid plate, small F & R wheel flares, carpeting, a floor console with storage, rubber F & R floor mats, a steering wheel wrapped in leather, daytime running lights, an RH visor vanity mirror, dual power mirrors, a dual front air bag restraint system, intermittent W/S wipers, deluxe cloth seat trims, a flat fold rear seat, bucket seats, an AM/FM stereo with CD and MP3, a power steering, and aluminum wheels. 
</p>


