Title: 
Upholding Volvo Standards

Word Count:
494

Summary:
A full-size station wagon, the Volvo V70 of the Volvo Car Group is originally a development of the 850 station wagon and sedan series.  The Volvo V70 upholds the Volvo body style which means artless riffs on the right angle, bearing utility and beauty all in one vehicle.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo V70 parts,steering,climate control,brakes


Article Body:
A full-size station wagon, the Volvo V70 of the Volvo Car Group is originally a development of the 850 station wagon and sedan series. A trivia for this car company is that it has a naming strategy that completely depends on the vehicles’ size and body style. The car manufacturer, Volvo, in the station wagon segment adopted V (which means Versatility), S (which stands for Sedan), and C (which refers to the new Coupe and Convertible). 

The Volvo V70 upholds the Volvo body style which means artless riffs on the right angle, bearing utility and beauty all in one vehicle. This vehicle has a styling that is restrained and elegant yet at the same time crisp and uplifting. It has been made available with different packages. One of these is the sport leather package that offers fine-grained hides on the steering wheel and gear-selector boot. The security package, meanwhile, features all-important mass movement and level sensors, security laminated windows, and an air-quality system. Also, the cold weather package did not fail to offer traction and stability control, heated seats, and head lamp washers and wipers. As an addition, options also included a Dolby Pro Logic in-dash four-CD audio system along with nine speakers. This audio system also comes with an astounding clarity and stereo imaging. 

In its interior, the Volvo V70 holds 60/40 split rear seats that are easy to use, and also provides an impressive 71.5 cubic feet of cargo volume. The rear seats also sport two seatback-angle settings that are in a fully upright position for increased cargo space. As per safety, which is one of Volvo’s main values that should not be excluded in the manufacture of their vehicles, the Volvo V70 has dual stage airbags, whiplash protection seats and ISOFIX attachment points for rear child safety seats. The ISOFIX hooks guarantee that the child buckets do not move up the side windows in case of accidents. 

Overall, the Volvo V70 exudes an aura of civility, responsibility and parental role modeling. It also provides the driver a feel of traveling faster. Also, this vehicle had options laid out in reference to its engines. There is the 2.4 liter engine; the 2.4 T engine that could produce 197 horsepower, and the 2.4 T engine XC with an all wheel drive. The five-cylinder engine is able to provide a smooth performance along with a nice power from its torque production. 

Volvo definitely considered comfort in the construction of the Volvo V70. The seats have been specially designed so as to provide a maximum level of support and comfort. Climate control is found on most of the models in the line up, along with high technology audio equipment with Dolby pro logic and subwoofers made available. The leather seats have become standard along with extra soft luxury leather seats as well. 

Volvo Parts and Used Volvo Parts has a product line up for Volvo V70 parts that includes accessories, brakes, cooling system parts, suspension, steering, fuel injection parts, and more.


