Title: 
US Government Car Auctions

Word Count:
538

Summary:
In the United States of America (US), it is very simple to get a pre-owned vehicle. People know that the finest place to buy or sell their cars is not through dealers or showrooms, but the General Services Administration (GSA). GSA is a federal agency that offers vehicles in auction. Individuals can also sell their own vehicle through auction.


Keywords:
Seized cars, Auto auctions,Car Auctions,Federal car Auctions,gov auctions, Police Auctions,Government car auctions, repossessed vehicles


Article Body:
In the United States of America (US), it is very simple to get a pre-owned vehicle. People know that the finest place to buy or sell their cars is not through dealers or showrooms, but the General Services Administration (GSA). GSA is a federal agency that offers vehicles in auction. Individuals can also sell their own vehicle through auction. Government agencies such as IRS, DEA, FBI and the police departments acquire 1000s of cars each month through seized and foreclosure laws that are auctioned off to the general public. These cars are listed and sold at up to 95% off of their original values and sometimes, these auctions may start from $100 only. These cars are sold very quickly as their storage costs are very high. 

A large number of fresh or approximately new cars get forfeited or seized by the financial institutions everyday as thousands of people fail to pay their car mortgage or lease costs. These cars are also auctioned off in a hurry, because the rate of accumulating the cars compensates the banks' ability to get the lost money back (similar to the police auctions, etc.). As a result, for some fortunate people who have the access to straight sources, find themselves weighed down by very cheap car offers that look unbelievable to the average car buyer. This is real and is advantageous to many car dealers. 

In addition, US government also sells its own vehicles after a certain period of time due to either change in policies or due to financial concerns. At these times, the vehicles are written off the books by selling out to the general public. Government Vehicles may come from several different sources. Generally, a vehicle can only be sold at a government auction if it is purchased under a federal or state government contract. To appreciate the numbers of vehicles up for the suction in this way, one needs to think of the long list of the different departments and levels of government in the US. Some of the sources of these used vehicles include the Federal Government, State Government, Local Councils organizations, Police Services / departments (incl. Sheriffs/Marshalls Dept.), Fire & Emergency Services, Religious Groups & other Non-profit Organizations, Universities & other Education Organizations, as well as Hospitals & Ambulance Services. Thousands of repossessed and seized vehicles are also auctioned off at these auctions.

By carrying out a simple hunt on your Internet, one can benefit from these great cars available in all kinds and price range. Car-Auction has a database full of thousands of different cars waiting for the bid. One can convert their dream car to reality by purchasing it from government & surplus auctions!  Buying a car can be a difficult and stressful process but GAS makes it enjoyable and fun experience. 

However not everyone can buy cars in this manner as this source of revenue is protected for the majority of car dealerships and not journalized. The general masses might have to go through the dealer or a classified ads routine. However, several organizations have gathered enough information and access rights to be able to let their members enjoy a multitude of the direct sources, whereby one can find their next vehicle with up to 90% savings off the book value price.


