Title: 
Used car buying tips for dummies

Word Count:
535

Summary:
A car buyers guide with tips on what to look out for when they are viewing a second hand. They even mention the appearance of the car- and no this is not just the outside of the car!


Keywords:
car buying tips, car buyers guide, car sales, South Africa


Article Body:
It’s just one of those mornings. As the rain pours down and I’m trying to start my mini (yes those old small ones) I decide it’s time to buy a new car.

Now, before I embark on this wonderful journey- there are a few stumble blocks I need to sort out. Firstly, I can’t afford a new car, but I’m sure I can find a nice, affordable second hand car somewhere. Secondly, I have no idea what to look for in a car.

For me it’s all about how cute I will look in it and that it will take me from point A to point B. I know nothing more than the absolute necessary. The engine is in the front under the hood, the spare wheel is somewhere in the back and I know where the exhaust is. Furthermore, my knowledge is very limited.

With my boyfriend out of town and my time relatively limited, I need to find some or other guide to help me. A guide for people who knows nothing about cars, something written for dummies, a buyers guide for second hand cars. 

Obviously, the best and first place I look for this ‘Used car buyers guide for dummies’ is on the Internet. I, of course, find quite a few irrelevant results that just show me lists of car dealers.

Eventually I stumble across a very in-depth used car buyers guide that gives you twelve different things to look out for when buying a car. I had to read it twice to understand everything, but eventually I got the hang of it.

Firstly, they give some helpful advice regarding the purchase of the used car. Then they chat about registration and documentation and give some useful information- mentioning things like the “Vehicle Identification Number” and where you need to look for it! 

Furthermore the buyers guide supply the reader with tips on what to look out for when they are viewing a second hand or used car. They even mention the appearance of the car- and no this is not just the outside of the car! 

They give little tidbits to look out for when you start-up the engine. Apparently, when you test-drive the car, you should drive it at various speeds- this will give you an indication of the condition of the engine.

The bodywork of the used car must be inspected and you should look out for any accident damage to the car. Make sure to check out the interior and the upholstery- lift seat covers to see if the seller isn’t just hiding damaged seats! 

Half of these things I would have never even thought to look at! Other tips include information about the gearbox and clutch, brakes and suspension, radiator and cooling system, as well as more general things like steering and tyres.

Must say, after reading this guide, I will definitely be able to pick out my new second hand used car with more confidence! For those women and other dummies out there that know nothing about what to look out for when buying a second hand or used car- get yourself a buyers guide! It really does help.


