Title: 
Used Car Auctions are the Best Deals Money can Buy

Word Count:
566

Summary:
Cars have become a crucial part of life. Many people are found of having different cars in fact for many it has became a style statement. They love to keep as many as models as they can. They even don’t mind to buy the used or a pre-owned vehicle. For this purpose the best place to buy used cars is through the General Services Administration (GSA). GSA is a federal agency that offers vehicles in auction.


Keywords:
Seized cars, Auto auctions,Car Auctions,Federal car Auctions,gov auctions, Police Auctions,Government car auctions, repossessed vehicles


Article Body:
Cars have become a crucial part of life. Many people are found of having different cars in fact for many it has became a style statement. They love to keep as many as models as they can. They even don’t mind to buy the used or a pre-owned vehicle. For this purpose the best place to buy used cars is through the General Services Administration (GSA). GSA is a federal agency that offers vehicles in auction. The cars are acquired through Government agencies such as IRS, DEA, FBI and the police departments through seized and foreclosure laws and auctioned off to the general public. These cars are listed and sold at up to 95% off of their original values and sometimes, these auctions may start from $100 only. The cars are sold very quickly as their storage costs are very high.

Now the questioned rose why government sell it own vehicles? And the answer to the question is that the us government sell their own vehicle due to regular change in policies or due to the financial concerns or technological changes, At these times, the vehicles are written off the books by selling out to the general public. Government Vehicles may come from several different sources. Generally, a vehicle can only be sold at a government auction if it is purchased under a federal or state government contract. To appreciate the numbers of vehicles up for the auction in this way, one needs to think of the long list of the different departments and levels of government in the US. Some of the sources of these used vehicles include the Federal Government, State Government, Local Councils organizations, Police Services / departments (incl. Sheriffs/Marshall’s Dept.), Fire & Emergency Services, Religious Groups & other Non-profit Organizations, Universities & other Education Organizations, as well as Hospitals & Ambulance Services. Thousands of repossessed and seized vehicles are also auctioned off at these auctions. Moreover, Government and Police auctions are considered more authentic in the country.

A large number of approximately new cars get forfeited or seized by the financial institutions everyday from people who fail to pay their car mortgage or lease costs. These cars are also auctioned off in a hurry, because the rate of accumulating the cars compensates the banks' ability to get the lost money back (similar to the police auctions, etc.). 

These auctions are thus the best place for people with access to straight sources to acquire a used car at offers that look unbelievably cheap to an average car buyer. However, this is real and is taken advantage by many car dealers.

However not everyone can buy cars in this manner as this source of revenue is protected for the majority of car dealerships and not journalized. The general masses might have to go through the dealer or a classified ads routine. However, several organizations have gathered enough information and access rights to be able to let their members enjoy a multitude of the direct sources, whereby one can find their next vehicle with up to 90% savings off the book value price. Buying a car can be a difficult and stressful process but GAS makes it enjoyable and fun experience.

One just needs to go to the police or government department of cheap used car auction. Before setting his maximum bid for sale, it is essential to look at the condition of car and to do the preliminary investigation.


