Title: 
View NYC With Clean Tourist Buses

Word Count:
311

Summary:
The clean air sightseeing buses in New York City is actually part of the commemoration of the summer and the height of tourism in the area. These buses actually have the capacity to reduce harmful pollution by around eighty five per cent because of the new technology that they have from the newly-installed diesel engines.


Keywords:
auto parts,MINI,best MINI parts,MINI accessories


Article Body:
You may be roaming around New York City looking for the best shows or museums. Or you may be just shopping around the town watching out for the best MINI parts for your car. Or you can simply play the role of the tourist just taking in the sights and sounds of the Big Apple. Whatever your purpose, you can go about the city of New York while riding buses that do not contribute to air pollution. 

The clean air sightseeing buses in New York City is actually part of the commemoration of the summer and the height of tourism in the area. Today, at 11 in the morning, these new environment-friendly buses would be unveiled. There would be twenty one new buses that will be added to the city’s touring buses. These buses actually have the capacity to reduce harmful pollution by around eighty five per cent because of the new technology that they have from the newly-installed diesel engines. 

These twenty one buses are the usual double-decker buses that are colored red. As the icon of New York City sight-seeing, it is indeed very essential that they still continue to hold the same image it has in previous years but only with additional benefits – like cleaner air. These buses are creations of the Gray Line New York Sightseeing which is a company of Coach USA. 

James F. Gennaro is the Chair of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the New York City Council. And he is very much delighted by such a big leap in tourism and cleaner air. He even states, “Air pollution affects everyone who breathes our city’s air, residents and tourists alike. I applaud Gray Line NY / Coach USA and Clean Air Communities for their leadership in helping to clean our air and make New York City a much greener place to visit and live.”


