Title: 
Volkswagen Golf: 24 Million Built by 2005 and Still Counting

Word Count:
412

Summary:
As of 2005, the statistics from Volkswagen say that there has been some 24 million Volkswagen Golf’s already built, that is why the company claims that this vehicle is its best selling model in its entire history. The Volkswagen Golf has had various functions as well that ranges from being the very basic personal cars and transportation vehicles to high performance sports coupes.


Keywords:
auto parts,Vollkswagen,Volkswagen accessories,Volkswagen parts,restoration parts


Article Body:
Another passenger family sedan has been released by the Volkswagen and it is the Volkswagen Golf. As of 2005, the statistics from Volkswagen say that there has been some 24 million Volkswagen Golfs already built, that is why the company claims that this vehicle is its best selling model in its entire history. 

This vehicle has been produced in a couple of body styles. The list of body styles for the Volkswagen Golf include the hatchback with three doors, the hatchback with five doors, the estate station wagon, the sedan or saloon, and the convertible. Each of these body styles has had their own characteristics and their own features. The Volkswagen Golf has had various functions as well that ranges from being the very basic personal cars and transportation vehicles to high performance sports coupes.

If you do have $16,030, you can own a 2006 Volkswagen Golf. It is a vehicle that could take in some five passengers inside its spacious interior and cabin. Its trim levels range from the GL 2.0 sedan to the GLS 1.9 TDI. Upon its introduction, the GL 2.0 sedan has been crafted and marketed with the standard 2.0 liter I4 engine. This engine is very much capable of providing 115 units of horsepower and could make the Volkswagen Golf achieve 24 mpg for city driving and 31 for the highway. Standard for this vehicle trim is a five speed manual transmission system with overdrive and the four speed automatic transmission system with overdrive are given as an option. As per the GLS 1.9 TDI which is considered to be the trim level found at the higher end, this vehicle comes equipped with the standard 1.9 liter I4 engine that is turbocharged and is a diesel engine. It can produce 100 units of horsepower, making the Volkswagen Golf get 37 mpg for city driving and 44 mpg on the highway. For this trim level, the standard transmission system is a five speed manual with overdrive, and the optional one is a five speed automatic with overdrive. 

Same Day Car Parts has all the Volkswagen parts and equipment that Volkswagen owners, followers, and aficionados are looking for. This online store holds top of the line Volkswagen car parts, Volkswagen auto body parts, Volkswagen accessories, and more. Same Day Car Parts also has top caliber parts and accessories for the various body styles and models that this vehicle brand has. Same Day Car Parts online collection of Volkswagen parts include used parts, accessories, body parts, engine parts, performance parts, and restoration parts among many others.


