Title: 
Volvo S80: Intelligent, Comfortable, Powerful

Word Count:
381

Summary:
Introduced back in the year 1999, the Volvo S80 is another luxury car from the Volvo brand. Volvo believes that a luxury sedan should be intelligent, comfortable, and powerful. That is why this vehicle brand created the Volvo S80 to be like that. If you are worried about seating, Volvo has created the Volvo S80 to be ergonomically comfortable for the passenger.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo S80 parts,Volvo accessories,brakes,clutch parts,service tools


Article Body:
Introduced back in the year 1999, the Volvo S80 is another luxury car from the Volvo brand. It is a front wheel drive vehicle and has been introduced in the market so as to replace the Volvo 960 sedan which was already of the older generations. Other vehicles in the Volvo vehicle line up owns up to various versions and the common one among all is having a wagon version. However, this time around, the Volvo S80 does not have this version in its family. Its major competitors in the automobile market include the Acura RL, the Audi A6, the BMW 5 Series, the Cadillac STS, the Infiniti M, the Jaguar S Type, the Lexus GS, the Mercedes Benz E Class, and the Saab 9-5. 

Volvo believes that a luxury sedan should be intelligent, comfortable, and powerful. That is why this vehicle brand created the Volvo S80 to be like that. One can find extra head and legroom and hip and shoulder room once inside for this vehicle is a wide one at that. This also is the only car in its class so as to achieve a five star rating and crash test rating for front and side impact as well as for vehicle rollover. 

What are the features of the Volvo S80? The list includes roadholding, stability and traction control, a Dynamic Stability and Traction Control (DSTC), Traction Control (TRACS), daytime running lights, bi-xenon headlamps, an illuminated side positioning lights and turn signal indicators, a rear fog light with auto off, front fog lights in the spoiler, headlamp washers, a safety cage passenger compartment, a collapsible steering column, a Side Impact Protection System (SIPS), an energy absorbing interior, driver and front passenger supplemental restraint system and dual threshold air bags, side impact air bags for driver and front passengers, as well as inflatable side curtains. If you are worried about seating, Volvo has created the Volvo S80 to be ergonomically comfortable for the passenger. It also has seat belts that have three point inertia-reel with automatic pretensioners, an overhead mounted seat belt reminder lights, a whiplash protection seating system (WHIPS), padded head restraints, anti submarine seats, an ISOFIX baby/child seat attachment system, and a top tether child seat anchorage capability. This vehicle is yet another vehicle to make high on the ranks.


