Title: 
Volvo 780: Descendant to the 262 C

Word Count:
442

Summary:
Carrozzeria Bertone from Turin in Italy designed, crafted, and built the Volvo 780. It was also through Bertone’s creative mind and hands that the Volvo 780’s predecessor came into being. To make the Volvo 780 distinct from any other vehicle, and very much unlike its ancestor, this vehicle was built to own it a uniquely distinct shape. Even if it held that look, it still was very much identifiable as a Volvo.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo 780,Volvo parts,Volvo accessories


Article Body:
The International Auto Show in Geneva, Switzerland became witness and venue of the public debut of the Volvo 780 coupe. This big and grand event happened in 1985. The Volvo 780 was the second 2 + 2 seater coupe from the company’s line up of vehicles. It has been four years since the 2 + 2 seater coupe Volvo 262 C waved goodbye. The Volvo 780 sports two doors. After a year, this coupe was then made available for the European market while the United States market had to wait for another year more. 

Carrozzeria Bertone from Turin in Italy designed, crafted, and built the Volvo 780. It was also through Bertone’s creative mind and hands that the Volvo 780’s predecessor came into being. To make the Volvo 780 distinct from any other vehicle, and very much unlike its ancestor, this vehicle was built to own it a uniquely distinct shape. Even if it held that look, it still was very much identifiable as a Volvo. This coupe held a sleek and low profile that was what other cars from Volvo’s 700 series. However, it held lesser severe angles and sharp corners. Compared to the vehicles from the 700 series, the Volvo 780 held slightly lowered hoods, trunks, and roof lines. The C pillar used to built this vehicle was wider and held a more gradual slope down to its trunk. There also was some improvement on its headroom. The window frames of this vehicle all held a black matte trim and had been accented with chrome. Chrome was also used in highlighting the car’s door handles, bumpers, as well as its side mouldings. 

As per the headlamps that this vehicle held, they were made and designed to be huge and flush-mounted. It had combined both high and low halogen beams. As per the grille of the Volvo 780, it was painted black in an “egg-crate” design. Look into the air dam and you would discover that fog lamps had been integrated into it. This vehicle actually received some badges that contained its name as well as it’s brand’s logo. These badges appear on the base of the C pillars. Upon introduction, the Volvo 780 held wide 205/60 HR15 tires. These were found on the brand’s signature 15 inch alloy wheels that held 15 spokes. 

Try taking a quick visit in the interior and cabin of the Volvo 780 and you would see for yourself just how greatly and grandly had this vehicle been designed. The vehicle had an instrument cluster and general dashboard layout that was simple enough. Birch burl wood accents with a high-glass finish highlighted the dashboard and door panels. The seats were contoured and sculpted bucket seats that had headrests that were height-adjustable.


