Title: 
Volvo V40: Holding Up to Volvo Values

Word Count:
476

Summary:
One of the vehicles bearing the Volvo name, as well as the three Volvo core values, is the Volvo V40 which has been considered and measured to be the one of the safest wagons in its own class.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo V40 parts


Article Body:
This brand name and automobile manufacturer’s name means “I roll” in Latin, and yes, it refers to Volvo. Volvo has been in the automotive industry for over seventy five years already and each and every design of Volvo vehicles has been guided by the company’s concern for the well-being of people, as well as their safety. And through the years, this commitment to safety and well-being has grown and developed into Volvo’s three core values which are safety, quality, and environmental care. With these Volvo core values intact and certainly made clear, Volvo approaches product development, design, and vehicle production with these core values in mind. This assures and guarantees owners of Volvo vehicles that the vehicle would be worth their while as well as they could be considered to be money worth spent. 

One of the vehicles bearing the Volvo name, as well as the three Volvo core values, is the Volvo V40 which has been considered and measured to be the one of the safest wagons in its own class. This is all due to the included safety features for this vehicle that comprises of the Whiplash Protection Seating System (which is also known as WHIPS), the Side Impact Protection System (also dubbed as SIPS), and the Inflatable Curtains. These safety features have all become standard and not given as an option. Also, the other features that have been included for the Volvo V40 are ABS brakes, traction control, and dual-stage airbags. 

The Volvo V40 holds two engine options which are the 1.8 liter and the 2.0 liter DOHC engine which has four cylinder motors. The Volvo V40 has a fuel consumption of around 9.3 liter per 100 kilometers during city driving and an averaged 6.0 liters per 100 kilometers for driving in the highway. 

The last year for the Volvo V40 series was 2004. This had two trim levels which included the S40 sedan and the V40 wagon. Each of these is an entry-level model. The interior for the Volvo V40 sports a long roof and it definitely does not look like or feel like a traditional wagon. Also, space is something that the Volvo V40 has given quite grandly for the interior of this vehicle has great space. The cabin can take up a maximum passenger capacity of five people. Reviews have it that the interior of the Volvo V40 is both secure and comfortable. All of the trim levels made available feature the much coveted air conditioning, an automatic climate control, heated power mirrors, power windows, power door locks, a remote keyless entry system, and an AM/FM/CD player. 

Listening to the market and responding to consumers’ demands is what Volvo has been doing for years. Similarly, Volvo Parts and Car Parts goes into every detail so as to ensure that its Volvo auto parts are at its best when it reaches the customers.


