Title: 
Volvo S80’s Interior: Recommended Highly

Word Count:
438

Summary:
The Swedish Asthma and Allergy Association has just chosen their very first vehicle to meet their standards. And among all vehicles out in the market, the vehicle that they chose was the Volvo S80 which is a new vehicle from Volvo Cars.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo S80,Volvo 960 parts,Volvo S90 parts,Volvo parts,Volvo accessories


Article Body:
The Swedish Asthma and Allergy Association has just chosen their very first vehicle to meet their standards. And among all vehicles out in the market, the vehicle that they chose was the Volvo S80 which is a new vehicle from Volvo Cars. After all, this new vehicle from Volvo has a Clean Zone Interior Package which is shortened as CZIP and this package actually is a new technology that gives clean in-car air as well as a pleasant driving and riding experience for all. 

The project manager at Volvo Cars and also the specialist in car interior environments, Anders Lofvendahl, had something to say about the CZIP. He says, “The criteria for the Asthma and Allergy Association’s product recommendation specify low levels of formaldehyde, particles, various irritants, volatile hydrocarbons, and odors.” This is actually a good thing, after all, asthma and allergies have become quite common problems at present. These are not just problems among children but are also problems of adults as well. With Volvo S80’s CZIP, this vehicle actually offers a safe and healthy climate and environment for those people who are quite sensitive. 
	
What is inside the Clean Zone Interior Package? This package actually includes a remotely controlled automatic cabin ventilation system. When the car door is unlocked, the CZIP stars up. It starts to effectively expel any emissions or strong odors that may have built up inside the parked car. As the substances, particles, and other components are dispelled and dispersed, the CZIP starts to decrease in power. Lofvendahl explains, “In hot climates, volatile hydrocarbons evaporate from plastics and textiles. These substances can serve as irritants to over-sensitive people, so to meet the criteria of the Asthma and Allergy Association an automatic ventilation system was a necessary precondition.”

Lofvendahl continues, “Volvo’s interior air quality system consists of a filter and a sensor. The sensor registers the existence of substances such as nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, and hydrocarbons in the surrounding air and shuts the air intake if the concentration is too high. Our close cooperation with the Swedish Asthma and Allergy Association has given us a far better picture of the needs of people with asthma and allergies. One example is that of dust accumulation, which is a far greater problem than we believed when we launched the project. That is why we have made the interior of the new S80 as easy to clean as possible and have avoided dust-collecting surfaces such as textile carpets. Instead, we use allergy-tested natural rubber coverings in both the passenger cabin and luggage compartment. They are easier to clean and keep free from dust.”


