Title: 
Volvo XC90: Just Right

Word Count:
505

Summary:
The Volvo XC90 has been constructed using the P2 large car platform. This very platform is the one used by the Volvo S80 sedan which is the company’s flagship. This vehicle has a turbo-charged driving, of good value, and is very well-designed. The Volvo XC90 combines elegance and style with performance.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo XC90 parts


Article Body:
<p align="justify">
The Volvo XC90 is a sport utility vehicle that is very suitable for people who have families. Also, it is a very good choice for those people who live in remote places. The Volvo value for safety still permeates the Volvo XC90. This vehicle has a turbo-charged driving, of good value, and is very well-designed. The Volvo XC90 combines elegance and style with performance. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has given the Volvo XC90 high marks in the Rollover Ratings for 2004. 

Unlike other vehicles in the market, the Volvo XC90 is not too large yet too small, that is very much like the crossovers introduced currently on the market. This vehicle has certainly been well designed for climbing into its interior would give you a chance to marvel as to how roomy it has been crafted. Space is something that the Volvo XC90 is very generous of. There is ample head and shoulder room. Also, there is an optional third row seats. This vehicle has a maximum passenger capacity of seven. This Volvo XC90 is very family friendly for it also holds 12 standard cup holders for driving long distances with kids. 

The Volvo XC90 has been constructed using the P2 large car platform. This very platform is the one used by the Volvo S80 sedan which is the company’s flagship. This vehicle, the Volvo XC90, has been made available in three trim levels. All of these levels are turbo charged. Because of this, the Volvo XC90 is a real pleasure to drive. It also is certainly an excellent performer when it comes to dry surfaces and snowy roads. Enhancing this vehicle’s stability is its long 112.6 inch wheelbase and approximately 75 inches in width. Making it less prone to do a rollover is the Rollover Protection System with a Boron steel reinforced roof structure, as well as the Roll Stability Control features. These have been made standard. 

Other features for the Volvo XC90 include anti-lock disc brakes, anti-skid and traction control systems, an RSC active stability system, front torso side airbags, and head-protecting curtain side airbags that covers the first two seating rows. Also included in the list of features for this sport utility vehicle are heated front seats, a home and safe approach lighting, a remote controlled alarm, a remote controlled central locking system, a centrally operated child safety lock, a power glass moonroof, daytime running halogen headlamps, rear fog lamps, headlamp cleaning system, a DVD navigation system, a premium sound system, and a reverse warning system. The vehicles comes in color choices of black, ice white, silver metallic, ash gold metallic, ruby red metallic, crystal green metallic, magic blue metallic, and titanium gray metallic. 

The most superior Volvo parts and replacement parts can be found at Volvo Parts and Used Volvo Parts. This online store contains Volvo parts like Volvo XC90 parts at better prices than anywhere else. Volvo Parts and Used Volvo Parts’ online catalog for Volvo parts is very user friendly and is secure as well.
</p>


