Title: 
Volvo 740: Style, Performance, and Luxury

Word Count:
495

Summary:
One of the vehicles that Volvo has crafted and manufactured is the Volvo 740. It had a lifespan of approximately a decade which started from the year 1984 up until 1992.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo parts,Volvo 740 parts


Article Body:
Volvo vehicles and automobiles are known to have style and power that surpasses every other vehicle found on the streets. Aside from that, Volvo has also been quite affiliated with safety and safety has certainly been part of the manufacturer’s mindset when it comes to crafting and producing new vehicles to introduce to the market. 1998 was the year when Volvo, an automobile manufacturer of commercial vehicles, trucks and buses, was acquired by the Ford Motor Company to become one with its Premier Automotive Group. Although this was so, the original company of Volvo was decades earlier, in 1927, in Sweden. 

“Safety cage and crumple zones” concept was what had sparked Volvo’s reputation for safety and security, and all these had started back during the extravagant and colorful ‘60s. The “safety cages” would refer to the strong materials that were used where the vehicle’s passengers would also be seated. On the other hand, the “crumpled zones” then referred to that part which would absorb all of the impact that was brought along by collision and crashes. Safety innovations were added in to their vehicle models and the safety list included three-point seatbelts, padded dashboards, the Whiplash Protection System (WHIPS), and the BLIS system which is a sensor system that alerts the driver when a car enters in the vehicle’s blind spot. Because of this whole safety system that Volvo has introduced and incorporated in their cars and automobiles, Volvo has then started being recognized as the vehicle which aspires for greater safety. 

One of the vehicles that Volvo has crafted and manufactured is the Volvo 740. It had a lifespan of approximately a decade which started from the year 1984 up until 1992. The Volvo 740 is actually powered by a range of different engines over the years such as the four-cylinder in-line OHC, 986 cc or 2,316 cc, six-cylinder in-line 2,383 cc Turbo Diesel. 

The Volvo 740 SE sedan was introduced in the U.S. for the 1985 model year. It was then a less optioned version of the Volvo 760 model. It was a breath of fresh air for the Swedish auto manufacturer for it was actually then intended to be a midsize car that offered more style, performance, and luxury than the esteemed and honored 240 series cars. It was offered as a four-door sedan, and was known internally as the 744. It also was offered as a five-door wagon which was internally known as the 745. Production had stopped come 1992 although the vehicle’s engine, transmission, chassis, and other important details lived on in the Volvo 940, which was in essence a reskinned 740. 

<a href="http://www.carpartsone.com/auto-body-parts/volvo-740-parts.html"target=_blank"class="navigation">Volvo 740 parts</a> and accessories are available at <a href="http://www.carpartsone.com"target=_blank"class="navigation">Volvo Parts – Volvo Auto Parts</a>. The advantage of using Volvo parts is that these are especially designed to work well with Volvo vehicles and thus you are guaranteed performance and maximized workability out of these Volvo parts.


