Title: 
Volvo YCC Concept Car Receives 2006 Swedish Design Award

Word Count:
340

Summary:
The Volvo YCC Concept Car has been one of those concept cars ever created that has certainly grabbed the attention not only of automobile enthusiasts and fans but also of organizations that try to look at exemplary and exceptional designs.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo 260 parts,Volvo parts,Volvo accessories


Article Body:
The Volvo YCC Concept Car has been one of those concept cars ever created that has certainly grabbed the attention not only of automobile enthusiasts and fans but also of organizations that try to look at exemplary and exceptional designs. That is most certainly why the Volvo YCC Concept Car received the 2006 Swedish Design Award. 

The 2006 Swedish Design Award’s jury wanted to actually honor and give recognition to practical design as well as to excellent problem-solving creations that use such practical design as a method. All nominated designs would be actually put on display this coming autumn in the House of Sweden which is the new Swedish embassy complex located in Washington, D.C.

So what is the Volvo YCC Concept Car? Well, actually, YCC stands for Your Concept Car. It is Volvo Car Corporation’s attention-grabbing concept car. One very unique thing about this car is that it has been designed, planned, and created by a team comprised of women. There were no men in the team. This Volvo YCC has certainly taken the attention of the whole world ever since its unveiling during the Geneva car show held last March 2004. 

The Volvo YCC has also been one of the most awarded concept cars around. Aside from the 2006 Swedish Design Award given by the Swedish Advertisign Association and SVID, this vehicle has also received other awards like the Golden Spark Plug given by the Swedish Automobile Association last April 2003, the Best Concept Car given by design master Ross Lovegrove last March 2004, the best Design in Show given by the New York Daily News last April 2004, the Women of the Year award given by the Swedish magazine Damernas Varld last December 2004, the Woman of the Year award given by the motoring magazine Automotive News Europe last May 2005, the Andre Award given by the Swedish Patent and Registration Office last April 2005, the Golden Globe award given by the World Media Festival for the film made about the YCC last June 2005, and the Torsten and Wania Soderberg design award last December 2005.


