Title: 
Volvo S60 Made Even Sportier According to Automaker

Word Count:
308

Summary:
The Volvo brand has come up with a mission: to further refine and sharpen the Volvo S60. The S60’s boot lid could also be specified with a sporty new wing spoiler. The S60’s exterior color choices have been upgraded.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volvo,Volvo S60 parts,Volvo parts,Volvo accessories


Article Body:
The Volvo brand has come up with a mission: to further refine and sharpen the Volvo S60. Despite the fact that this vehicle is already on the sporty mode, it seems like the car brand is still not satisfied and would like to give this vehicle further enhancements. 

To back this up, Gerry Keaney, the senior vice president of Volvo’s marketing, sales, and customer service, explains, “We’re making the S60 even sportier in every respect. We’ve both spiced up the design and fine-tuned the chassis to create a car with even greater driving appeal.”

The restyled Volvo S60 will come with a front spoiler that has been crafted and made to make the vehicle look more pronounced. It would also be a protruding contour at the vehicle’s bottom. There would also be new sills and a new rear lower bumper. Each of these has been color coordinated with the car body itself. The S60’s boot lid could also be specified with a sporty new wing spoiler. There would also be a new grille which is quite larger and more pronounced compared to the previous one. The Volvo seal and badge would also be more pronounced and has been designed to be classic yet rejuvenated. 

The S60’s exterior color choices have been upgraded. Now, three new colors have been added which include Electric Silver, Orinoco Blue, and Maple Red. The same number has been added to its new aluminum wheels. 

The exterior is not the only thing that has been updated. The interior would also be made sportier with its metal décor trims as well as its twin-tone leather upholstery. The cabin would be receiving new Grid Aluminum metal décor panels which are optional. Although, these panels are actually designed so as to create a more three-dimensional impression and tactile feeling.


