Title: 
Waiting For the Pontiac Solstice

Word Count:
486

Summary:
General Motor’s Pontiac division is very much responsible for the Pontiac Solstice. What is the Pontiac Solstice? Compared to the concept car of the Pontiac Solstice during the said auto show, the Pontiac Solstice still holds the very same exterior styling. The power of the Pontiac Solstice comes from a Power Ecotec 2.4 L DOHC engine. For those who would like to customize their Pontiac Solstices, Pontiac has also thought of five packages ready for sprucing up the Pontiac Solstice.


Keywords:
auto parts,Pontiac,Pontiac Solstice,Pontiac parts,Pontiac accessories,Pontiac bodykits


Article Body:
General Motor’s Pontiac division is very much responsible for the Pontiac Solstice. What is the Pontiac Solstice? It is a roadster and this will be running on the streets, highways, and roads starting the summer of this year, 2006. 

The Pontiac Solstice was introduced to the public eye during the 2004 North American International Auto Show. The production though for this vehicle had started during the middle of the year 2005. Compared to the concept car of the Pontiac Solstice during the said auto show, the Pontiac Solstice still holds the very same exterior styling. Manufacturers claim that this vehicle could possible be yours for US$19,995.

Mounted on the GM Kappa platform, the Pontiac Solstice has been predicted to boost the marketing and sales of the Saturn Sky and the Opel GT. This vehicle has been crafted as a convertible although there have been rumors that Pontiac would soon be manufacturing a fixed roof coupe version. By doing such, the Pontiac Solstice would then be very much capable of doing sports car racing since this event is not open to convertibles. Pontiac has also given interested parties the chance to choose as to what they would like the vehicle to have with regards to seat material and exterior color. As per the seats, the choices are either leather or cloth and the color choices are Steel, Sand, or Ebony. As per the exterior colors, one could choose from Sly, Aggressive, Mysterious, Pure, Envious, Cool, and Deep. Sly is a shade of gray, Aggressive is a shade of bright red. Mysterious is black. Pure is white. Envious is a dark green. Cool is a mixture of off white and very light gray. While Deep is a shade of dark blue. 

The power of the Pontiac Solstice comes from a Power Ecotec 2.4 L DOHC engine. This is assisted by an Aisin five speed manual close ratio engine. The vehicle also offers an optional five speed automatic engine. The estimated fuel economy of this convertible is some 20 miles per gallon if it pertains to city driving and 28 miles per gallon if it is for highway driving. 

For those who would like to customize their Pontiac Solstices, Pontiac has also thought of five packages ready for sprucing up the Pontiac Solstice. The Convenience Package includes cruise control, a Driver Information Center, fog lamps, a steering wheel accessory cruise control, and Driver Information Center controls. The Power Package has power windows, power door locks, a keyless entry system, remote and outside rearview power mirrors, and a remote control. The Premium Package includes a three spoke leather wrapped steering wheel with accessory controls, and a leather seating. For smokers, there is a Smoker’s Package that includes an ashtray, and a lighter. The Club Sport Package adds four wheel anti lock brakes, a limited slip rear differential, a sport tuned four wheel independent suspension, a five speed manual transmission, and an Ebony Cloth interior.


