Title: 
Welcome the New 2006 BMW Z4 M Roadster

Word Count:
418

Summary:
There had already been several versions of the BMW Z4 and the 2006 BMW Z4 M Roadster would be another one. The BMW Z4 has already been in production since 2003. It is a luxury roadster that has taken the spot and niche that the BMW Z3 left black.


Keywords:
auto parts,BMW Z4,BMW parts,BMW accessories


Article Body:
This early part of 2006, the new 2006 BMW Z4 M Roadster would soon be cruising down to the nearest automobile dealers. Of course, this would be a vehicle from the much coveted BMW. There had already been several versions of the BMW Z4 and the 2006 BMW Z4 M Roadster would be another one. The BMW Z4 has already been in production since 2003. It is a luxury roadster that has taken the spot and niche that the BMW Z3 left black. It is a vehicle produced in one body style which is a convertible that holds two door and has been built on the FR platform. 

330 horsepower would be power that the 2006 BMW Z4 M Roadster has. It has a soft top and has been crafted to actually hold the duty of being the Ultimate Driving Machine. People who know the capabilities of BMW vehicles would know that this duty could and would be realized with the 2006 BMW Z4 M Roadster. The engine equipped with this convertible is a 3.2 liter dual overhead cam engine with six inline cylinders and 24 valves working to produce the mentioned amount of power. Assisting the engine is a standard six speed manual transmission although interested parties could upgrade the transmission system to the optional six speed Steptronic automatic that has steering wheel-mounted paddle shifters.
 
This vehicle is actually based on the 2006 BMW Z4 convertible. Aside from offering people the chance to drive with the top down, this convertible also offers drivers to have complete control. It also features a speed sensitive locking differential as well as high performance brakes. To add to the complete package that this vehicle has are advanced technology like Brake Drying, Brake Standby and Brake Fade Compensation systems. 

The 2006 BMW Z4 M Roadster not only provides performance as expected in BMW vehicles. This vehicle also provides utmost luxury. Take a ride inside and you would notice that the interiors are nicely designed and appointed. It has leather bucket seats, and upgraded sound systems made available for it. As per the outside appearance, the 2006 BMW Z4 M Roadster sports an updated version of the BMW Z4 M’s front fascia along with new fog lights, new front spoiler, larger air inlets, a more sculpted hood, and redesigned tail lights. 

If you do have $51,995 and you think that this 2006 BMW Z4 M Roadster would be the car that would suit your needs and whims, then this convertible could be yours. It would be a good one to drive come spring and summer adventures.


