Title: 
What Kind Of Car Lover Are You?

Word Count:
400

Summary:
What Kind Of Car Lover Are You?


Keywords:
car cliques, polishers, racers, muscle cars, antiques, all original, street rods, hot rods, car restoration, car parts, cars, working on cars, showcase, matchingnumbers, matching car parts, matching 


Article Body:
Chuck and I got involved in our first car club when we lived in Rochester and had our Corvette. We had a blast. Met a great bunch of people, did a ton of events. In fact I can still remember our first event. It was a car rally and Chuck and I got the second place trophy. 

However, like any group, we had cliques. Now, don’t get mad at me for the monikers that are coming. They have been around a long time and I didn’t make them up. 

All of the following groups love their cars, just each in a different way. First there are the polishers. Their cars are pristine. They will use toothbrushes to get their batteries cleaned. I mean you could eat a meal off their engines. You won’t find a spec of dust on the outside, inside of their cars, and inside includes the engine and trunk. 

The racers, believe in a clean and polished car, however, their main concern is POWER. They want to get the most they can from their engines. It is all about having the fastest car!

Funny aside, when Chuck and I went to the NCCC convention they were giving away a LT1 engine and when the polisher at our table won it, you had to hear the racers. We wished him the best, but told him we were jealous, and we were. Would have loved to put that baby in our Corvette.

Then we have the groups who believe street rods, hot rods, muscle cars, or antiques are the way to go. There are also those who believe in all original, no changes. However, you also have another group that doesn’t worry about it, as long as the car is what they want.

We love a nice clean and polished car, while we would like matching numbers and all original, if an aftermarket part is warranted we will use it. To Chuck and I it is about having fun with the car. We want to drive it, not trailer it. However, we always have believed in the motto “to each his own” and respect other people’s opinions.

One thing we all have in common, is the love of cars and that is all that is important. 

So what group do you fall in? Drop us a line and let us know.

DeFiore Enterprises, Copyright 2005


