Title: 
What to Bring On a Family Trip

Word Count:
464

Summary:
Family trips are one of the ways for a family to spend time together and enjoy each other’s company while driving on the road. As for your vehicle, do not forget to bring your own stash of emergency equipment and instruments. Spare tires are a must as well as flares, and a jack. It would be best to check your whole vehicle before you go on a trip.


Keywords:
auto parts,Ford parts,Ford accessories,Ford escort parts


Article Body:
Family trips are one of the ways for a family to spend time together and enjoy each other’s company while driving on the road. The journey could bring the family to a camp site, to a grand parents’ house, or to an amusement park. Or it could be anywhere else. Although there are various reactions from the children, most would often enjoy the whole trip no matter how long it may seem. Fun as it may seem, there still are a couple of things that parents should prepare for and be able to bring with them for the duration of the whole road trip for the family. 

Cellular phones should not be forgotten. This is very necessary especially if the car you are driving experiences an overheated engine, a blown tire, or if there is a need for some kind of medical assistance. However, do not also forget to bring the charger for the cellular phone – be it an A/C charger or a car charger. Both would help out a lot. 

Stopping to ask directions is okay, however, if you could bring a detailed map, you would be actually saving some time. Compared to stopping and asking for directions, you can have somebody read the map to you while you are driving. Also, these maps would be very useful in places where there seems to be a loss of population. 

Keeping the kids entertained is important especially if they have a very short attention span. If you are the type who gets tired easily by their seemingly endless stream of questions or their heated squabbles, it would be best to bring along books or activity packs that would get them busy during the trip. There are puzzles, connect-the-dots, coloring books, and other activities that could make them keep quiet for some time. 

Do not forget to pack in some food to munch on. No, this would not be those big meals which could get your vehicle’s interior pretty messy. Food on the trip could include bags of chips, crackers, water, juice boxes, bite-size fruits, granola bars, chocolate bars, and milk. Make sure that you put these in disposable containers or resealable plastic bags. 

As for your vehicle, do not forget to bring your own stash of emergency equipment and instruments. Spare tires are a must as well as flares, and a jack. It would be best to check your whole vehicle before you go on a trip. If there are parts that need replacement, do not hesitate to do so. Ford parts like Ford Escort parts can be easily ordered at Ford Parts and Ford Auto Parts. They are made from quality materials so that you would not have to worry about these replacement parts wearing down on your long journey.


