Title: 
What You Should Do After An Automobile Accident

Word Count:
470

Summary:
So you have just been involved in an automobile collision and are now in a confused state.  Maybe this can help you with what you need to do next.


Keywords:
automobile, car, accident, legal


Article Body:
So you're driving down the street with your family and/or friends and suddenly you and another vehicle hit each other and now you are in a state of panic in the driver seat.  Here are a few guidelines to help you through with your troubling problem.

Stay clam.  After an automobile collision, a person can feel up to a varying and multiple amounts of emotions that may affect the way he or she can handle the current situation.  It is best to clam yourself down by using whatever methods work best for you such as taking deep breath or counting to some arbitrary number.  Once you are in a clam state you are better able to handle the situation.

Check for injuries.  Depending on the seriousness of the automobile collision, there may be people injured.  If it is a minor injury, try to assist the injured person however for more serious injuries, call an ambulance.

Call the police.  Once the people are safe call the local police and update them with the current facts.  Give them facts and not some ambiguous information such as "I wasn't speeding" and instead respond with a concise answer like "I was driving at 40 miles per hour".

Write everything down.  Get the information of anyone directly involved in the accident such as their names, driver license numbers, date of births, addresses.  You should also take down the cars' license number and state that issued the license of the cars involved in the accident as well as the license number and state that issued the license of cars nearby as the police can track them down to use as witnesses.

Call your insurance agent.  The sooner you call your agent the better it is for you.  They will give you information that will help you get over this problem and get you back onto your life.

Don't sign any document that is unfamiliar.  Signing something without knowing what it is, is an insanely moronic practice to begin with so it should apply here as well.  Even the police explain to you what you are signing, which is usually an automobile collision and also your insurance agent explaining what you are signing as well.

Call your lawyer.  The sooner you get into contact with your lawyer, the better it is for you.  They can clarify any legal ramifications that you may questions about relating to your automobile collision so that you may better understand the current situation that you are in.

Ask questions.  Though the police, your insurance agent and your lawyer may give you information, they will assume that you will know about everything in-between if you don't ask any questions.  Even if you are remotely confused about something it is better to ask now rather than finding out how it can hurt you later.


