Title: 
Wheel And Tire Maintenance For Your SUV

Word Count:
544

Summary:
Your SUV’s wheels and tires are one the most essential parts of your vehicle. You should actually clean your wheels and tires once a month for maintenance.


Keywords:
auto parts,Land Rover,Land Rover Range Rover parts,Land Rover accessories


Article Body:
Your SUV’s wheels and tires are one the most essential parts of your vehicle. Because SUVs, such as the Land Rover Range Rover, are 4WD, it can go through any terrain that the planet could offer. And when it does, the tires and wheels of your SUV do not just obviously help you to reach your destination because it is the major equipment that makes your vehicle move. However, the functions of the wheels and tires do not just end there. These parts also emphasize the overall appearance of your vehicle. Moreover, the wheels can actually improve your cars performance just by effective cleaning. Like any other car parts like Land Rover Range Rover parts, SUV wheels can eventually be corrosive and tires could wear out because of certain factors. 

Getting your SUV perfectly cleaned on a local car wash is a great idea. However, the only drawback of it is the cost that you would be spending in a car wash. Why go to a car wash if you could clean your wheels by yourself, right? So here are some few guides in effective cleaning and maintenance of your vehicle’s wheels and tires.

Before we proceed to the cleaning session, first you should know the factors that made your wheels and tires unpleasant. Whenever you use your SUV for a long travel or even in a short trip, dust particles attack the surface of your wheels. Other unwanted dirt on your wheels and tires include road tars, mud, and different soil crumbs. Acid rain and winter salt are effective destroyers that can make your wheels brittle.

Cleaning your wheels and tires is actually the first step in car washing. You should first select a certain cleaner for your wheels and tires. There are a lot of cleaning agents out in the market today but you should choose the safest and most effective cleaning agent for your wheels and tires. Some cleaning agent contains a high level of acidity and can easily damage your wheels. Acid-free cleaners are effective cleaning agents that are commonly used by car wash shops. The most common cleaner is the household detergent because you can find it anywhere in your kitchen, or toilette, of course. Not only that, detergent is also effective and is the safest cleaner because it does not contain any harmful ingredients that can affect your car. Wheels and tires of SUVs are much larger and broader than other vehicles so the cleaning process most likely will take longer compared to sedans. 

Now let us start with the cleaning process. First, you should check your tires for road dirt and mud. If you found one, then scrape it with any hard object you can find in your place, but be careful not to scratch your tires so hard. Dilute your chosen cleaner in a bucket of water and then start brushing your tires. The grooves of your tires are the most susceptible to mud and road tars. Brush it effectively. After cleaning your tires, proceed to the wheels. Rinse the brush that you had used in your tires and start brushing your wheels in up and down motion. Pretty easy, right? You should actually clean your wheels and tires once a month for maintenance.


