Title: 
When What You See Is What You Get

Word Count:
511

Summary:
The present 2006 Jaguar XJ series has been constructed to sport four doors and can take in a maximum of five passengers. It is considered to be under the luxury sedan or luxury sports sedan category.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar XJ series parts,brakes


Article Body:
Produced under the Jaguar name, the Jaguar XJ is crafted as a saloon or sedan and was first launched in September of 1968. Trivia has it that this saloon is the last of its kind to still contain Sir William Lyons’, the found of the Jaguar company, input and detail. The XJ designation was given from the car’s code name during its development which actually stood for Experimental Jaguar. Lyons’ himself had advertised this vehicle which he fondly referred to as “the finest Jaguar ever”. That time, it held a 5.3 liter V12 engine.

The present 2006 Jaguar XJ series has been constructed to sport four doors and can take in a maximum of five passengers. It is considered to be under the luxury sedan or luxury sports sedan category. It has also been made available in six trims that ranges from the XJ8 up to the Super V8 Portfolio. This series has been freshened for 2006. The XJ8 is equipped with a standard 4.2 liter V8 engine that could produce 300 horsepower and could achieve 18 mpg in the city and 27 in highway driving. The Super V8 Portfolio, meanwhile, features a standard 4.2 liter V8 engine with 400 horsepower that can speed up to 17 mpg in the city and 24 mpg on the highway.

The UK Department of Transport has shown that the Jaguar XJ series are the safest on UK roads. These have been measured according to the chance of death in an accident and also according to road accident statistics that this department has studied and analyzed. It is approximately three times safer than the safest Volvo models.

Driving and riding the 2006 Jaguar XJ provides great comfort. This is due to the vehicle’s considerable sprung weight that is due in part to the massive steel, glass and leather bushing that cushions the occupants’ bodies and the road surface. It has been made longer, wider, and taller than its predecessors. It also has been constructed with an advanced aluminum frame. Standard for this new vehicle are safety features like anti lock brakes, Brake Assist, front and rear seatbelt pretensioners, as well as front, side, and head curtain airbags. Wind noise is lessened greatly so much so that the interior remains to be quiet. This vehicle offers a tight, smooth, and refined driving experience.

Luxury of contemporary standards is what the 2006 Jaguar XJ’s interior provides for it has been specially refurnished and redesigned so as to meet the needs of today’s demanding car customers who are clamoring for prestige. This vehicle also provides and gives out warmth and richness. Space is something to be excited about for since the vehicle holds much of this in its headroom, legroom, and shoulder room. It is also considerably lighter than the old model. Its V8 power engine is quite legendary and could become a heritage in itself.

Jaguar Parts and Jaguar Auto Parts has been synonymous with integrity and dependability in serving its clients, just like what the Jaguar has been. This online store provides clients with the highest quality Jaguar auto replacement parts like Jaguar XJ series parts.


