Title: 
When Fogs Become a Hindrance to Your Driving

Word Count:
336

Summary:
Driving in the fog is not advisable as according to safety and driving experts. Of course, we all know that driving in the fog could be quite hazardous especially if the conditions are extreme. However, during instances when the fog is not that heavy, one could still drive through it.


Keywords:
auto parts,Kia accessories,Mini accessories,Kia parts,Mini accessories


Article Body:
When the fog comes rolling in to your area, you might think this is something that you should not worry about. Children would even love it when this happens because they would feel like they are playing among and amidst the clouds. Even older people love this kind of phenomenon for they are able to have a good relaxing feel around them because fogs oftentimes bring about a cool kind of temperature to everything that it envelopes. 

However, on some areas, the fog could get quite heavy and dense that one’s visibility is lessened. There are even some instances when the fog is so great that a person could not even see the object right in front of them. When this happens, it is not very advisable for people to move about for they could only bring harm to themselves or to other people. This also goes true for driving. 

Driving in the fog is not advisable as according to safety and driving experts. Of course, we all know that driving in the fog could be quite hazardous especially if the conditions are extreme. However, during instances when the fog is not that heavy, one could still drive through it. You should only have to put on your headlights so as to assist you with your visibility. 

Your car could also get foggy inside and the very first things that could fog up is your windshield. You can try defrosting it first to get the fog out. Or, so as to be able to reduce the chances of your windshield fogging, you should maintain its cleanliness. You can keep them clean by wiping them down about every two weeks. You can use glass cleaner to do this. 

You can also keep out moisture from your car. This moisture could come from various external sources like rain or snow that could come inside your vehicle through your clothes, umbrellas, or shoes. So make sure that you shake them off first before you get inside your car.


