Title: 
When All You Need is Space

Word Count:
488

Summary:
Made available in three trims, the 2006 Volkswagen Golf is a vehicle that has the capacity of five passengers maximum. This vehicle sports four doors and is a family sedan. The 2006 Volkswagen Golf has been made available with a hatchback version of the Volkswagen Jettan sedan.


Keywords:
auto parts,Volkswagen parts,Volkswagen Golf parts,trunk lid


Article Body:
Made available in three trims, the 2006 Volkswagen Golf is a vehicle that has the capacity of five passengers maximum. This vehicle sports four doors and is a family sedan. Its trims range from the GL 2.0 sedan to the GLS 1.9 TDI. When this vehicle was first introduced, the GL 2.0 sedan came equipped with a standard 2.0 liter, I4 engine that could produce 115 horsepower, thus taking 24 mpg in the city and 31 mpg on the highway. Standard is a five-speed manual transmission with overdrive, and given as an option is a four-speed automatic transmission with overdrive. On the other hand, the GLS 1.9 TDI comes with the standard engine that is 1.9 liter, I4 with a production of 100 horsepower. It is a turbo diesel engine with overdrive as standard. It can take 37 mpg in the city while 44 mpg max for highway driving and cruising. 

The 2006 Volkswagen Golf has been made available with a hatchback version of the Volkswagen Jettan sedan. Both of these vehicles have the same design generation. The sporty GTI is a hatchback with two doors. The Volkswagen Golf offers GL and GLS trims with a 115 horsepower and 4 cylinder engine. These vehicles come with standard anti lock four wheel disc brakes, front torso side airbags, head-protecting curtain side airbags, traction control, and an anti skid system. 

In truth, the 2006 Volkswagen Golf has already been on sale in Europe for eighteen months before it was introduced in United States showroom. In comparison, the Volkswagen Golf and the Volkswagen Jetta essentially is the same car from its parts like the front bumper up to the third roof pillar. What differs is that the Jetta’s rear window drops down to the trunk lid while as in the case of the Golf, its roof continues further towards the back of the vehicle, with hatchback access made from the rear. This vehicle carries more cargo volume, and better access to storage space. And, yes, the Volkswagen Golf costs much less than the Volkswagen Jetta. 

As per the Volkswagen Golf’s predecessors, this new one is 2.3 inches longer, one inch wider, and 1.5 inches taller that has paved the way for more space in its interior. This new vehicle also carries with it crash protection that highlights front, side impact, and head protection airbags that are standards for this model. There are also redundant controls for the stereo and climate adjustments on the steering wheel hub. The gauges are also trimmed with chrome rings as well as the cabin which is trimmed with aluminum. As per the Volkswagen’s seats, they are made to be hefty and well bolstered. 

Volkswagen Golf parts and Volkswagen parts can be found at Auto Parts Online’s online store. 

In a nutshell, although the Volkswagen Golf has its low points like a low acceleration, and less automatic-transmission performance, this vehicle still outshines because of its spacious cargo room, great build quality, excellent fuel economy, comfortable ride, excellent visibility and quality interior materials.


