Title: 
When Your Car Exterior Gets Too Dirty

Word Count:
358

Summary:
For most people, cleaning cars mean getting a bucket, some soap, a hose, and a sponge. And this also means getting all wet. This is mainly because cleaning a car mostly means to a huge portion of people as cleaning only the exterior of a car.


Keywords:
auto parts,Chevy body parts,Ford truck parts,Chevy parts,Ford parts,Ford accessories,Chevy accessories


Article Body:
When a person tells you to clean your car, what is the very first thing that comes into your mind?

For most people, cleaning cars mean getting a bucket, some soap, a hose, and a sponge. And this also means getting all wet. This is mainly because cleaning a car mostly means to a huge portion of people as cleaning only the exterior of a car. Just keep in mind just how many music videos, movies, and documentaries show people cleaning only their car’s exterior. Even if you do try to search images about cleaning a car, you would most likely be given a list of images that show people getting wet and soapy while cleaning the car’s exterior. 

Now, to clean up your own car’s exterior, you should be very much ready to get wet. It could also get a little physical and would also mean you having to sweat out a little. After all, remember that your car’s exterior is the one that suffers and meets all the dirt, grime, dust, and other elements when driving. So dirt could really accumulate on it making cleaning quite a chore. 

First, roll up all your windows. Make sure that they are closed tightly. Shut all your doors as well. When you have done so, start by cleaning and rinsing your car using a hose. Rule of the thumb is to start from the roof, making your way down to your car’s tires. 

After this, take a bucket filled with warm water. You can try putting in car detergent or even mild dishwashing liquid. Some automobile experts even suggest that you  use a car soap that has been made specially for vehicles so as to protect the paint. Take your pick. Then, wash your car using a sponge or a rag. Make sure you go through everything. Then, rise off all the soap using the hose. 

To dry your car, you can use a chamois cloth or a towel but make sure that it is clean when you use it. Or else, you would only be marring the cleaning job that you just finished.


