Title: 
When To Pass Another Vehicle And When Not To Pass

Word Count:
381

Summary:
On a road with two lanes, the passing lane is oftentimes in the direction of oncoming traffic. Also, if you are uncertain if there is enough time or space to overtake the other vehicle, do not do so. Also, do not overtake if there is also another vehicle passing you.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda 626 parts,Mazda parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
When a vehicle in front of you is moving slowly, you would rather want to pass that vehicle and get on your way quickly. However, there are still some conditions or situations that you would have to consider first before you do such a thing. You see, you could get into accidents or collisions if you just keep on passing other vehicles without much precaution. 

Passing is also known as overtaking. The lane used for this activity is almost always on the inside lane which is somewhere towards the center of the road and away from the road shoulder. On a road with two lanes, the passing lane is oftentimes in the direction of oncoming traffic. However, it is only allowed on long straightways with plenty of visibility. On the other hand, on a multi-lane highway, any lane can be considered as a passing lane. 

If you are a new driver, you may think that passing is easy. However, think again for it could really get quite tricky. You should not pass if there is a solid yellow line on your side. Also, if you are uncertain if there is enough time or space to overtake the other vehicle, do not do so. Hesitation could lead to distraction and accidents. 

When you come to a road where you can’t see the curve or you can’t see over a hill, do not overtake. You see, there might be another vehicle coming on the other side of the road and it could be disastrous. Also, if there is another car coming towards on the opposite lane, it means that you should not overtake. Also, do not overtake if there is also another vehicle passing you. 

To make sure that you are passing safely, only pass if there is a dotted line on your side. Also, check first if the passing lane is clear before you overtake. Also make sure that you and your vehicle has plenty of space to pass safely through. 

Mazda Parts and Mazda Auto Parts has a long list of high quality Mazda 626 parts and other Mazda parts to help you out in having and maintaining your vehicle. After all, a vehicle in good condition would assist you greatly in having a safe and a wonderful driving experience.


