Title: 
Why You Never Stand A Chance When Buying A Vehicle

Word Count:
361

Summary:
Most buyers get ripped off because they let the auto dealer exploit these buying triggers


Keywords:
car buying tips, new car, vehicle, auto


Article Body:
If you are in the market for a vehicle and think you can do a little research on the internet and then go and make a great deal you will get ripped off...

The reason that the average car buyer will never get a good deal on a vehicle is most vehicle purchases are made using emotional triggers that the auto dealers use to manipulate the ususpecting public.

They include:

Fear Of Loss - once the car dealers have figured out your hot buttons and which model you are interested in they will make you think that there is only a few models left.  If you are looking at a used vehicle this is even more evident.

Prestige - auto sales people will make you feel like a million bucks when driving the vehicle. They'll even ask questions like "Will this fit into your garage?" which assumes mental ownership because now you can picture the vehicle in your garage.
 
Value - every auto dealer will tell you how great the resale value of their vehicle is.  While almost every vehicle loses an average of 25% the first year there is no such thing as a vehicle that has value.

While there are a few good auto delers out there most of them will try and squeeze every penny out of you so they can line thier wallets.  Think about this.  Do you know a poor car dealer?  I sure don't.

There are a few steps that you can take to gain a competitive advantage:

1. Do your research online and do not go into any dealership until you have a good idea on what make and model you are interested in
2. Call the dealership before going to test drive.  Most dealerships have an Internet Department and will sell their vehicles for less than by just walking in.  Contact this department first.
3. Don't negotiate payments, just total amount of purchase.  Most buyers fall into the trap of monthly payments and do not look at the total overall cost of their purchase.

With a few minutes of work you could save yourself thousands of dollars... if you would like additional money saving tips visit: http://www.BeforeYouBuyACar.com


