Title: 
Why Are Custom Cars Popular?

Word Count:
538

Summary:
The flames from the silencer of the car burst out, as if the car would fly. The bright red spoiler adds to the glamour of the car. The blue light which throws itself beneath the car entices you to the top and the paint and stickers make you want that car. You probably would have imagined one of the best custom cars, by the time you read these lines. What do you think, why custom cars like these are so popular and people just can’t stop making their cars like one of them? Why ...


Keywords:
custom street cars, custom car, import car, muscle car


Article Body:
The flames from the silencer of the car burst out, as if the car would fly. The bright red spoiler adds to the glamour of the car. The blue light which throws itself beneath the car entices you to the top and the paint and stickers make you want that car. You probably would have imagined one of the best custom cars, by the time you read these lines. What do you think, why custom cars like these are so popular and people just can’t stop making their cars like one of them? Why every time a customized car passes by you, your heart skips a beat? Think about it. 

Well, the reason behind the popularity of custom cars can be many. But let us discuss some of the major reasons. One of the prominent and arguably the predominant reason behind custom cars is street car racing. The second reason behind the popularity of custom street cars is the craze and the love of people for their cars. They want to see their car and its performance in a completely new way and opt for customization according to their needs. 

Let us discuss the street car racing concept which has led to the popularity of custom street cars. Car lovers love to flaunt their cars in speed and style. Street car racing is popular in many countries. They happen both legally and illegally and the business of illegal street car racing is much higher than the legal racing. 

People buy normal cars from the market and then customize them according to the racing requirements. They concentrate on modifying engine, body and style. Engine customization is their priority. The famous nitro boosts are added to the engine to give drivers an added edge over the other racers when it comes to super fast acceleration at any point of time. Among other modification are the rpm boost, better exhaust, flame silencers, ignition system, and fuel intake system. When it comes to style, neon lightning, stickers , alloys, window graphics, spoilers and other parts give car a completely new look. 

With enhanced acceleration, top speed and nitrous oxide support, a car is ready to zoom ahead in a race. These customizations make any car a speeding beauty. People get both style and power which they always wanted in their cars. Street racing would continue to be the driving force behind popularity of custom cars. 

Another reason behind popularity of custom cars can be sheer looks and style. They want their car to look the best when they take it on to streets. Car lovers tend to customize their cars and turn them into fabulous machines. People paint their cars with vibrant colors; they change their bumpers and add many more features to them. They put on neon blue bulbs, stickers and stylish wiser and spoiler to add to the charisma of the car. The alloys and rim covers give cars an all together different look. Light accessories, license plate accessories, high volume deck, tinted windows panes make a car look awesome in its own kind. 

So if you are bored with the looks and performance of your car, customize it applying your own creativity or give it to a customization company.


