Title: 
Will You Win A Mazda MX-5 Roadster Coupe?

Word Count:
318

Summary:
The Mazda Motor Corporation has just recently announced to the whole motoring world a new kind of contest that would send all Mazda owners and car and vehicle aficionados racing. You should, of course, be able to show the Zoom-Zoom philosophy which the auto brand is marketing.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda parts,parts for Mazda B2000 pickup,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
The Mazda Motor Corporation has just recently announced to the whole motoring world a new kind of contest that would send all Mazda owners and car and vehicle aficionados racing. Well, racing to get and capture the best photos, that is. 

So what is the contest all about? According to Mazda, the contest is actually a photo competition. But unfortunately, not all people can just join the contest. First off, you should be from Europe. If not, you are out of it. And yes, to avoid any kind of bias and issue, you should also not be a Mazda employee. 

The winner of the mentioned photo contest would not be winning just those simple Mazda giveaways or just any parts for a Mazda B2000 pickup. The person who has captured the main theme of the contest would be bringing home a new Mazda MX-5 Roadster Coupe. 

Masahiro Moro is the vice president for the marketing arm of the Mazda Motor Corporation in Europe. He backs up the announcement with regards to this contest by saying, “The exhilaration we felt as a child shooting down a hill on our bike – this is what Zoom-Zoom means at its most basic level. And this thrill of movement is what Mazda wants to deliver with every car we design and build. The photo contest’s goal is to capture this ‘emotion of motion’ in a single photograph.” 

If you are interested, what you need to do is to click away and send the pictures you captured. You should, of course, be able to show the Zoom-Zoom philosophy which the auto brand is marketing. And when you are ready to send your entry in, you just visit the website which was made especially for the contest, www.zoomzoomphoto.com, and you can submit your captured moment. Those who would be visiting the site would also be able to vote for their favorite shots.


