Title: 
Windshield Woes: Replace Or Repair

Word Count:
397

Summary:
Now, what happened was your windshield received a huge stone and finds itself through the windshield and leaving a hole behind. So what do you do? Do you simply replace the windshield or can you just have it repaired? The answer to this question is “It depends” and that is according to automobile experts.


Keywords:
auto parts,Toyota,Toyota parts,Toyota accessories


Article Body:
Now, what happened was your windshield received a huge stone. The huge stone somehow managed to find itself through the windshield and leaving a hole behind. So what do you do? Do you simply replace the windshield or can you just have it repaired? 

The answer to this question is “It depends” and that is according to automobile experts. Just like any other damages like scratches on the paint or on the exterior of your vehicle, if the damage is too huge, then maybe it is time to replace your windshield. On the other hand, the decision on whether the windshield should be replaced or repaired also depends on other things like the size, the location, and the severity of the damage. You see, most shops that offer windshield repair actually accept cases where the damage range from around chips that are around a quarter in size or cracks that could measure some three inches long. However, beyond that, replacement would be the answer. 

Of course, you are very well aware that the repair for a windshield could get quite costly. A chip from a rock could cost you around $40 to $50 dollars. That is for just one chip. Now think if there any additional chips. That means you would have to shed an extra $10 for each additional one. As per repairing cracks, the principle and the price is still the same. 

Now the next question is where do you actually have your windshield replaced or repaired? You can check out the Internet for places or shops that offer such services. On the other hand, you can also go to an automotive glass specialist for they actually specialize in repair or replacement of automotive glass. You can also try out your luck at a windshield repair facility where they do give their best in fixing chips and  cracks in your windshield. Car dealers also offer services like windshield replacements. The good thing with dealers is that once you do purchase a windshield from them, you are very most certain that it is an original one and is made from quality material. 

You can also shop for discount car parts and accessories from Auto Parts Go’s online performance or OEM replacement auto parts catalog. In stock are thousands of items that range from specific parts like Toyota parts to any other part for various vehicle models and makes.


