Title: 
X-Type: Definitely a Jaguar

Word Count:
490

Summary:
The Jaguar X-Type would not be mistaken for any brand of vehicle for it is definitely a Jaguar and it exudes the look and feel of a Jaguar.  Primarily, the Jaguar X-Type was designed to be a direct competitor to the BMW 3 series and the Mercedes-Benz C-Class.


Keywords:
auto parts,Jaguar parts,Jaguar x-type


Article Body:
The smallest of the current Jaguar saloon cars, the Jaguar X-Type had had its humble beginnings in 2001. It was purposefully built on the success of the S-Type and has taken its styling and design mostly from the Jaguar XJ series. It also has some Ford parts in it so much so that Jaguar, the vehicle manufacturer, states that only twenty per cent of the X-Type’s parts come are Ford parts and the rest are Jaguar parts. 

Primarily, the Jaguar X-Type was designed to be a direct competitor to the BMW 3 series and the Mercedes-Benz C-Class. And to be able to compete with these vehicles, it was structured and crafted with an all wheel drive system which was tuned to be able to send sixty per cent of its engine power to the rear wheels, and the remaining forty per cent sent to the front, thus giving this vehicle a sportier feel. It was initially crafted as a saloon, however come early 2004, the saloon was then joined by an estate model, thus making it the very first Jaguar estate car. Also, it was Jaguar’s vehicle to use a diesel engine. 

The Jaguar X-Type is elegant, comfortable, and really fun to drive. It is one vehicle that would be a good choice for driving in the rain, snow or ice because it gives drivers and its passengers a secure feeling even during those conditions. As per last year, a new Jaguar Sportwagon joined the X-Type line of vehicles. It has already gained popularity in Europe. Aside from that, it offers a great cargo carrying capacity along with its unique style that’s only Jaguar. It also has a tailgate with independently opening rear window, luggage tie-downs, removable luggage cover, and also a cargo net. What is neat for this vehicle is that it has a neat hidden cargo compartment under its rear floor. 

Standard equipment for this vehicle includes dual-stage front-passenger airbags; front side-impact airbags; front and rear curtain-style head protection airbags; three-point rear seat belts; all-wheel drive; four-channel ABS, automatic climate control, tilt and telescopic steering wheel with audio controls; power windows with one-touch operation; eight-way power driver’s seat; four-way manual passenger seat; power moonroof; leather-trimmed seats; wood and leather steering wheel; center console with sliding armrest; Sapele wood trim; floor mats for the front and rear; sun visors with illuminated vanity mirrors; Bluetooth phone; CD changer wiring; speed control; 120-watt radio/cassette; and antenna that is integrated into the rear window. 

For all Jaguar needs, customers can browse through one of the largest Jaguar parts suppliers in the United States at Jaguar Parts and Jaguar Auto Parts. 
	
The Jaguar X-Type would not be mistaken for any brand of vehicle for it is definitely a Jaguar and it exudes the look and feel of a Jaguar. It still contains all the traditional British ingredients that has been Jaguar’s definition as a brand for decades and decades still.


