Title: 
You Can Tune Your Car For Maximum Performance!

Word Count:
491

Summary:
Power tune your car without removing the dash or popping the hood! Yes, a power tune programmer can quickly transform your ordinary car into a road beast and get your rocking down the road in no time.


Keywords:
power tuner, engine performance, performance parts, car parts, Hypertech, jet chips, sports cars, GM


Article Body:
Are you satisfied with your performance? Your car's performance, that is? If you are not or if you have wondered how you can crank more power out of your engine, then I have some good news for you: you can do it with an engine tuning programmer. Yes, within minutes you can turn your ordinary passenger car into a road warrior without having to pop the hood or by removing the dashboard. It is a quick, easy, and awesome way to unleash more power from your car's engine. 

The aftermarket parts industry is constantly coming up with everything you need to enhance your vehicle’s look as well as its improve performance. On the performance side of things custom air filters, cold air intakes, and exhaust systems are much sought after options for car enthusiasts. In addition, performance chips are being installed by owners who desire to turn their ordinary cars into something extraordinary.

While performance chips are a great way to increase torque and bang out more horsepower, they are invasive. This means you must either pop the hood or remove the dashboard to locate your current chip, swap it out, and replace it with the new one. Fortunately, technicians have invented tuning modules that work by simply hooking it into your under dash diagnostic connector. Once you are "wired" all you will need to do is answer a series of yes/no questions and the programmer does the rest. When you are done, you can disconnect the programmer and enjoy your now potent vehicle.

Power programmers, including those developed by Hypertech, fit right into the palm of your hand. Each programmer is custom developed for your make/model, so you must specify the vehicle you own or it won't work for you. Popular vehicles that can benefit from tuning programmer include: the Dodge Ram; Jeep Wrangler, Cherokee, and Gran Cherokee; the Ford "F" series pick ups and Mustang; and several GM models including the Corvette, Firebird, Camaro, and many full size pick up trucks.

<b>There are several benefits in using a power programmer, including:</b>

--Increased horsepower

--Increased torque

--Increased fuel economy – yes, an efficiently tuned engine gets the best fuel mileage.

--Optimized tuning – tune for 87 octane or 91 octane fuel.

No you don't have to be mechanic or a computer programmer to work with a power tuner. Everything you need is stored right inside your little hand held device. What's more, if you decide that you want to return your car to its OEM specifications, you can do that in mere moments. Try swapping out a performance chip that quickly!

Of course, power tuners aren't for everyone. If you are satisfied with the status quo or aren’t looking to get the edge while driving, then you are likely to pass on the experience. For everyone else, a power tuner is an affordable and non invasive way to turn an ordinary passenger car into a true road rocket.


