Title: 
Your Trunk’s Saving Grace

Word Count:
482

Summary:
First, you should be able to strip your car’s trunk if it has carpet. When you have done so, mask off the border of the trunk with the masking tape. Remember to cover up all parts that do not need any spraying. Remove your car’s seat. Wipe the lacquer thinner in your car’s trunk. This actually helps the bed liner spray get its grip. Then, mix the lining part of the spray and stir for around a minute.


Keywords:
auto parts,Mazda,Mazda B16 pickup parts,Mazda parts,Mazda accessories


Article Body:
Do you remember when was the last time you looked in your trunk? Statistics have it that the trunk is oftentimes one of the most neglected parts and areas of a vehicle. Also, it is in fact one of the most overlooked and mostly taken for granted parts. Remember that for most of your car’s lifetime, you only remember the trunk when you need to put or get something out of it. 

More often than not, we store various types of things inside the trunk. And sometimes, these things that we put inside contain various materials and elements that could harm the trunk. So, as a car owner, it is important that you know how to protect and keep your trunk in good condition. Of course, you would like to have a trunk in good condition for if not, where would you be storing and hauling your share of cargo?

To save your trunk from degradation, you have to collect first everything you need before you start on your big project. You would be needing a bed liner spray that would work on your vehicle’s trunk. There are some that are used to line truck beds. You can ask around auto parts stores. Also, you would need a paint spray gun, a compressor, masking tape, lacquer thinner, sandpaper, and paper. 

First, you should be able to strip your car’s trunk if it has carpet. Then, clean the surface thoroughly. Try to sand down any high sports or rough spots that may have found their way to your car trunk’s walls or floor. Make sure that you get the surfaces as smooth as possible. This is to ensure that when you use the bed liner spray, it would actually take much hold on the paint. 

When you have done so, mask off the border of the trunk with the masking tape. Remember to cover up all parts that do not need any spraying. Remove your car’s seat. Spread then the paper you have around the area so that your car’s interior would not be receiving any kind of overspray. Make sure that you tape parts of the paper so that the spray would not get through the cracks. 

Wipe the lacquer thinner in your car’s trunk. This actually helps the bed liner spray get its grip. Mix the adhesive of the spray and stir for around a minute. Make sure that you follow the directions that came along with the spray. Then, spray it where you would like it to be. Then, mix the lining part of the spray and stir for around a minute. Pour this mixture into the spray gun paint reservoir and use this to apply the liner throughout the trunk. When done, carefully remove the masking tape and paper and let it dry according to the specifications given by the liner package.


