Title: 
Your Mechanic Can Be a Valuable Asset When Purchasing A Used Car

Word Count:
407

Summary:
Car dealers are not particularly well liked, and knowing as many of them as I do, I can understand why that might be the case. I run an import shop in Florida that specializes in late model luxury imports. I've been in business for quite some time, and I have heard plenty of horror stories from customers regarding other dealerships. In my opinion, I think the majority of car dealerships one will encounter are reputable, by and large. I say "by and large" because some dealers I know use nickel and dime methods to maximize their profits, which I disagree with.


Keywords:
spanos imports, used car parts, daytona florida


Article Body:
Car dealers are not particularly well liked, and knowing as many of them as I do, I can understand why that might be the case. I run an import shop in Florida that specializes in late model luxury imports. I've been in business for quite some time, and I have heard plenty of horror stories from customers regarding other dealerships. In my opinion, I think the majority of car dealerships one will encounter are reputable, by and large. I say "by and large" because some dealers I know use nickel and dime methods to maximize their profits, which I disagree with. Personally, I would rather give the customer a quality auto at a fair price and consequently gain a lifetime customer, but that's a topic for another article. 

One of the more recent horror stories I heard involved someone who had purchased a vehicle that was leaking oil. For those of you that know anything about cars, you know that this is nothing to be taken lightly. The customer was assured by the dealership that this older, yet low mileage used car was in pristine condition. Here's where it gets interesting... Before the sale, the customer asked if she could have the car inspected by her mechanic. The dealership did everything they possibly could to keep that from happening, and succeeded. They told her that they would have their own mechanics do a "twenty point inspection" which would save her the time and expense of having her mechanic take a look. Unbelievable! Since the customer parked her car on a busy street where there were already several oil spots, she never noticed the leaking until after her ridiculously short thirty day warranty was up. 

Her mechanic would have spotted an oil leak the minute he had the car up on the rack. As disheartening as this story is, there is a valuable lesson to be learned here. Car buyers, unless they are dealing with a dealer they are familiar with and whom they trust, should seriously consider having a mechanic check out any used car they are interested in (preferrably the local certified manufacturer dealer of the automobile make they are considering). I have had several first time customers ask me if they can have the car independently inspected and I am always happy to oblige. Take my word for it, the only dealers who would frown upon independent inspections are those who have something to hide.


