Title: 
Your Tire Counts

Word Count:
344

Summary:
The National Tire Safety Week was launched so as to assist drivers in understanding the basic tire care. Aside from this, the fact remains that there is still that need for proper tire maintenance. From researches done, the statistics have shown that around 85 percent of drivers do not actually check their vehicle’s tire pressure properly.


Keywords:
auto parts,Buick parts,Buick accessories,tires


Article Body:
The Automobile Club of Southern California has recently stated that as long as your vehicle has tires that are in good working condition, you would be able to have a good fuel economy and extend the life of your vehicle as well. This is in accordance and with regards to the National Tire Safety Week which started just last April 23rd and would be continuing at the end of this week. 

The National Tire Safety Week was launched so as to assist drivers in understanding the basic tire care. Aside from this, the fact remains that there is still that need for proper tire maintenance. From researches done, the statistics have shown that around 85 percent of drivers do not actually check their vehicle’s tire pressure properly. 

Engineer Steve Mazor who is the Auto Club’s principal automotive engineer states, “Not knowing the condition of your vehicle’s tires is equal to pouring money down the drain. Proper tire inflation is necessary to for safe driving and to reduce gas costs.” He continues, “Under inflated tires can cut fuel economy by up to two percent per pound of pressure below the recommended level. During every fill up, motorists should walk around their vehicles and check tires for uneven or excessive tread wear and proper inflation. Drivers can refer to their vehicle’s doorjamb or glove box for original specifications or the manufacturer of the replacement tire for tire pressure inflation.” 

As per statistics that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) has, nearly one out of every three vehicles on the roads and highways has a significant under inflated tire. Aside from this fact is that there are some 600 fatalities and around 33,000 injuries that happen every year. These are results of low tire pressure related crashes. 

On the other hand, Auto Parts Discount’s collection of discount Buick parts and other vehicle’s parts are simply accessed at its site. These assist in keeping your vehicle in tiptop shape. Their Buick parts are one of the lowest priced and are produced with great durability.


