BACKYARD FISH PONDS: A HOW TO

Aesthetics

Recently, one of the most popular backyard designs is
adding a water pond or a fish pond to the yard. These
projects, however, can only be achieved in sprawling
and huge yards that has walkways and large areas.

But if you are really certain to have your own fish
pond and yet you do not have a large back yard, there
are design ideas that can be incorporated to hopefully
place your pond in it without having to take up too
much space and dominate your yard.

Let your pond serve as the focal point of your back
yard. Place it in the middle or in one corner of the
yard if you have a small space. Make it appealing to
the people walking around the house.

Location

If you wish to place it in the corner part of the
yard, raise the pond a little higher so that the fish
will seem as a surprise to the visitors. But if you
want to place it in the center, it is best if you
place the pond at ground level or a little above it.

Fish Types

Make sure that the fish you put inside are colorful
and lively to attract attention. Watching the fishes
swim around everyday can also serve to be therapeutic.
But if you want to maintain a small pond, do not place
large fishes such as the Japanese Koi. They may not
live long in this kind of environment and they are
also extremely expensive. Goldfish are compatible with
the size of your pond, however, their longevity might
not be a guaranteed in an outdoor pond.

Maintenance

Think how much you really want an outdoor pond and how
you can maintain and build it depending on your
preferences. You might find that maintaining an indoor
aquarium is difficult enough, how much more an outdoor
pond.

Consider the climate of your place. Water ponds and
fish ponds are most applicable in tropical weather
because of the advantage of the sun all year round.
Some aquatic plants need to be exposed to the sun to
grow. The plants and fishes may die if you let them
stay in the pond during winter time. it is best to
transfer them to an indoor tank if the weather is not
applicable.

A fish pond in your own backyard only tells an
individual how much energy, time, and money you are
willing to devote to the beautification of your
backyard. It does not matter how large or how small it
is, it just goes to show that you appreciate beautiful
things. You will not only impress a lot of people but
yourself as well. A back yard fish pond brings a
luxurious and relaxing feeling to the place.

In order to make your fish pond more appealing,
decorate its surroundings. Landscaping the place will
attract frogs and birds which can add to the overall
natural feeling. If you cannot afford landscaping
projects, hanging plants and flowering bushes will do.
This will produce a great ambiance to your visitors
and guests.

Having a fish pond is not a go-get-it-and-have-it
project. You have to maintain and preserve its beauty
time and again. Make sure to add water to it
periodically. It is also important that you get rid of
fallen leaves as this will cause decay and unpleasant
appearance.

Lastly, consult your local pond professionals before
building a pond yourself. Do not hesitate to ask
questions as this will benefit the inhabitants of the
pond.