BACKYARD POND BUILDING

Backyard Masterpiece

Backyard ponds are once thought to be owned by only
the wealthy and filthy rich individuals. That was
then. Now, backyard ponds can be built by even the
simplest homeowners. These can liven things up and can
be a good conversation starter for guests and
visitors. It will not only provide a beautiful and
visually appealing backyard but a relaxing one as
well.

From cozy and small to rich and lush, back yard water
gardens can range from almost any design you want.
Just a little background about building a back yard
pond and the right materials is enough to create your
own private oasis.

Step one. Decide where your pond will be situated.

Look for an area in your yard where there are little
trees. Falling leaves are a big no-no to your pond
since it can make maintenance an everyday job. Place
your pond in an area reached by the warmth of the sun.
Aquatic plants need the sun to grow. However, stay
away from too much heat since this can cause some
plants such as lilies to die.

Another advice is to place your pond in a high area.
This can prevent runoff water to accumulate and
overflow your pond causing murkiness and further
maintenance.

Step two. Lay out the area of your pond.

If you want to design your pond to the size you want
it to, trace the perimeter of the pond using a
bendable material like a garden hose. If you are
satisfied by the size and shape of your pond, mark the
area using a spray paint or any marker.

Step three. Use a pond liner.

Pond liners are used to prevent water from the pond,
fishes, aquatic plants, and other pond contents to
escape the pond. In the same way, it also prevents
non-pond materials to enter and cause dirt or excess
nutrients to the pond. Pond liners range from
pre-formed liners to PVC liners. If you are willing to
spend the extra cash, using cement will also be
applicable.

Pre-formed liners are usually utilized by small ponds.
These can be bought at pond supply outlets and can be
easily installed after digging the pond. However, if
you want to create the design and size you want, PVC
liners would work best. These are usually used for
large and complex ponds. Other types of liners are
available. It is best to ask for advice from your
local pond contractor about this stuff.

Step four. Dig your pond.

Dig your pond according to the width and depth that
your prefer. Place rocks on the edges of the pond
liner and fill in spaces with gravel. Do this part
diligently and carefully. Camouflage the area with
stones, pebbles, or plants.

Step five. Assemble the equipment.

Place the filters, lighting, and water supply. Make
sure that these will all function well. Connect them
to the electrical supply and place them in locations
that will suit them best. Do not forget to make a
drainage system for the pond.

Step six. Just add water.

Now is the time to fill the pond with water. Observe
if there is any leaking. Clean out the area first and
then add clean water for your pond. Place the plants
in their rightful places in order to create a
beautiful appearance. Let the plants settle for at
least a week and then it is appropriate to add the
fishes. Add fish one at a time. Fill the pond with
just the right amount of fish. Consider the size of
the pond and your fish. Make sure they are compatible.

And now, sit back and relax. Give yourself a pat on
the back for a job well done!