BUILDING A FISH POND FOR YOUR OWN BACKYARD GARDEN

DIYs

Building the perfect pond for your backyard garden can
be a do-it yourself activity or you can hire a
professional to do it for you. It's really not that
hard but does require some research and certain
knowledge about landscaping in order to get it right.
You need to get a good book and read up on it or ask
some friends and professionals about the idea of
building a pond in your garden. For now, here is a
brief discussion on how to build that pond that you’ve
always wanted in your garden.

Situate the Pond

Basically the first step to building a pond is to find
a suitable spot to dig a hole in your garden. The size
and depth of the pond should be proportional to size
of your garden. A liner will also be needed for the
pond. You can buy and place a prefabricated fiberglass
piece or have the choice free forming your pond with
rubber roofing material or similar to it. In any case,
a liner is a must for ponds to keep the water from
draining.

If you are planning to breed fishes in the pond, you
need to consider the depth. You have to make sure that
the pond is deep enough for the fishes. In colder
climates, the pond should be deeper than the frost
line and making sure that the fishes have still enough
room to go to.

Ponds should not be placed near trees, shaded, or low
areas. Plant life, especially lilies, and fishes need
the warmth of the sun. Falling leaves can also
accumulate fast and cause a cleaning nightmare. Low
areas cause large volume of rainwater runoff to enter
the pond. Rainwater runoff may contain chemicals
coming from pesticides and fertilizers which can be
harmful to pond plants and fishes.

Filtration

Building a pond also requires the owners to put some
thought on how to filter off the waste that
accumulates in it. A good thing to remember is that
the bigger the water area the better it can handle the
waste coming from the fishes. Keep in mind that you
will need to put some kind of substrate or gravel so
that a bacteria bed can build up and help maintain the
water in good quality. You can buy good filters and
gravel in your local pet stores.

If you are building a pond to keep a school of gold
fish or other kinds of fishes, wait until you have
covered the bottom with gravel and placed a good
filtering machine. Like an aquarium or a fish tank,
you should introduce a fish to the pond one at a time.
Allow some time for the environment of the pond to
adjust with the population. If you dump all of the
fish you intend to place in the pond, they probably
would not survive the environment because the natural
filtering of the bacteria will not be able to handle
the waste of the fishes and their food.

Filters can also help to ensure that your pond doesn’t
become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Mosquitoes
lay their eggs on still waters, so anything that
agitates the eggs will help prevent the pond to become
a breeding ground. Filters help maintain the waters
clean but regular cleaning is still needed to maintain
the quality of the pond.