TWEAKING YOUR BACYARD POND

Live Like Royalty

Backyard ponds are not only for the filthy rich
individuals. Nowadays, even the simplest homeowner can
make their own backyard pond as luxurious as the
wealthy estates.

Once you get your back yard pond set up, it would
provide both fun and enjoyment. It also provides a
dwelling place for the fish, wildlife, aquatic plants
and flowers. It is a relaxing hobby that not only
provides relaxation but appreciation to Mother Nature
as well.

Plan Ahead

Building your own backyard pond may not be extremely
hard to built but thorough planning should be placed
in constructing one. The hardest part in building one
is digging the pond. It all depends on what type of
soil your region has. This determines how easy or how
strenuous the digging part would be.

The size and shape of the pond depends on your
preferences. It can be a small, preformed pond or one
that needs a pond liner that can hold up to seven
thousand gallons of water.

Location

Consider the location of your pond. Where would it be
best seen? Picture yourself sitting outside. What
location grabs your eye the most? Consider these
important elements. Is the water source situated just
nearby? Is your pond’s location a flat area? Is
electrical supply available? Keep in mind that these
are just some questions you need to be answered.

Equipment

Building a pond of any size requires a complete set of
tools. Now, take hold of these important equipment. In
building and constructing a pond, one must need a
water pump, a UV filter, a pond filter, and some pond
plants among many. Other must haves are the following:
a pond liner of appropriate size, an air diffuser,
pond lightings, a skimmer, the aquatic animals, and
fish food.

Cost

Another thing to consider in pond building is the
cost. Initially, constructing and maintaining the pond
could be quite expensive, that is with no doubt. But
there are now cheaper do it yourself kits available in
the market. Once it is finished, the enjoyment it
brings is worth it.

Another plus for the backyard pond is that it turns an
oh-so-boring piece of land into a thing of beauty. It
works best if you have the proper landscape to go with
your pond. Make your pond the centerpiece of your back
yard.

However, because of too many do-it-yourself
homeowners, they usually make mistakes. Following
these guidelines may help you avoid the pitfalls of do
it yourself backyard pond disasters.

Initially, it is important to incorporate your pond to
the current landscape of your backyard. This works
best for amateur landscapers who just wanted to get
right down to work. Do not let your pond detract the
beauty of your yard. Make it fit and not out of place.

To Sum It Up

Integrate your pond’s design to your landscape. Do not
make it lavish if you have a very simple backyard.
Take time to choose the design that may flatter the
overall landscaping.

Secondly, think of the essential requirements of a
pond. Do not place your pond in complete shade since
this will hamper the amount of sunlight to your pond.
Aquatic animals and plants need ample amount of the
warmth of the sun.

Finally, size does matter. Plant the size of your
pond. Do not place too much fish on a small pond.
Experiment on a variety of aquatic plants.

Provide luster and relaxation to your yard as well as
increase your property’s value. Make your backyard
more attractive and enjoyable by adding a backyard
pond.