Title: 
Has Honesty Become a Thing of the Past?

Word Count:
697

Summary:
This article explains honesty and its value in making long term relationships with costumers so they keep coming back; it discusses the importance of the triad between honesty, trust and credibility when marketing.


Keywords:
How to make profits, Ethical marketing, honesty builds trust, credibility, repeat costumers


Article Body:
Has honesty become a thing of the past?  Many people are asking themselves this question as they scour the net for what they need.  

As the low economy in the United States takes its toll on many, people are constantly looking for alternative ways to solve their dilemma, including the internet. 

 In a frantic search to find the ultimate solution, they spend their hard-earned money on “Get Rich Schemes” only to find out that the bargain they hoped for wasn’t a bargain at all.  

With crushed hopes, dreams, and an empty wallet many people retaliate.  Some may pass it off by learning negative things such as not trusting anyone else… possibly for the rest of their lives.  Others quit buying altogether.  While still others, run and tell there friends they got ripped-off and by whom causing a viral rift, giving marketers a bad reputation.  

Either way we look at these facts, we still come to the same conclusion.  We need to change the way we are doing things and become more ethically inclined when running our businesses. 

Honesty has a great deal to do with any marketer, if not for any other reason but to be able to continue with one’s business.  Secondly, it helps someone else get what they need.

I remember a time when people put great trust in their local merchant.  You remember those days?  The marketer was fair and usually gave the consumer more than they bargained for…They new the secret to long term success.  

We too have that same power to claim long term success and to help change what is going on in the internet marketing circle!  By claiming this power and making a few changes, we can help stimulate the economic growth that is needed to overcome hard times.  

You may be saying to yourself, but I am honest in my work.  You may be!  There are still many marketers that use ethical marketing when selling their products.  That’s great, but what about passing these ethical techniques to future merchants?   Like our affiliates for example...Are we teaching them about honesty?  How about the new marketer who seeks wisdom and a JV with some of the old timers?  

I know some folks who have been making money for several years are going to say, "We've tried to teach the young about ethical marketing, but they aren't listening."  That may be so.  We cannot twist anyone's arms to get them to do the right thing.  

However, we can be examples for them.  We leave the ball in their court.  The young will then learn from their mistakes.  Without customers and future financing, they will once again seek wisdom from the old timers.

Then, and only then, will online marketing be instrumental in economic growth so it can stand firm throughout the trials that face all of us.

If this article offends anyone maybe it's time to take a look at the overall marketing picture. 

Trust is built on the very foundation of honesty, especially when dealing with costumers.  It’s a two-way street…the consumer gets what they paid for, their hopes are flying high and their wallets still have money in them so they can buy other things.
 
The marketer on the other hand, gets a repeat costumer that will tell his/her friends, who will tell their friends, and so on, making more money in the long run, while building great lasting relationships, and a fantastic reputation.  To put a sugar coating on top, they are helping someone else.

So, I guess we need to ask ourselves these questions:  Do we continue with this “Dog-eat dog” attitude and eat dirt? 

 Or… Do we claim the power from past years and help change the mindset of the consumer which will lead us to bigger profits where everyone is happy?

The choice is ours!  I know what I am doing do you?

© Mary Murtha
    Web Marketing Tools Co.
    mmurtha@zoominternet.net





Article may be freely distributed in its entirety!  Absolutely no selling, editing, or altering of content including the link provided.   You may add your text box and link under the text box.


