Title: 
The Quickest Way to Get is to Give

Word Count:
703

Summary:
It’s true.  You can’t really get what you want in life until you have given it to others.  Doesn’t sound like it makes much sense, does it?  How can you give what you don’t have?


Keywords:
self-help, wealth, abundance, attraction, inspiration, coaching


Article Body:
It’s true.  You can’t really get what you want in life until you have given it to others.  Doesn’t sound like it makes much sense, does it?  How can you give what you don’t have?  As you open your mind to the possibility and ask this question of yourself, you allow opportunity to come to you and knock at your door.  Then you will find a way that it is possible to give to others what you want, before receiving it yourself.

It almost sounds like a chain letter and in a way it is.  The chain letter is a facetious reference as so many of us have been exposed to them by now and know they are illegitimate scams.  Yet the basic principles are: you give before you receive, and you give with the faith and expectation of receiving.  A similar modern example can be seen in the film ‘Pay It Forward’.  By giving to others, you allow good things to happen to you.  And this all boils down to the simple law of attraction.

The law of attraction is like any other law of nature, like gravity.  And like gravity, it is not one that has been generally ‘discovered’ yet.  As a result, most of us are walking around thinking in a completely disordered paradigm.  

Disordered paradigms of thought are displayed over and over in history, and discoveries of natural laws and observations of reality have brought order to transform the mistaken beliefs that had been accepted for fact.  You can think of many examples, such as the belief that the world is flat, or the belief that we are at the center of the universe.  Or the great changes that resulted as a discovery of the force of electricity and harnessing its natural power.

In this same way, we are able to make a change in our own disordered thought patterns.  Right now 99% of us are probably dissatisfied.  Dissatisfaction means larger life is seeking to be expressed through us, and it is being blocked.  Self-sabotage is a very real process working in the invisible realms of the unconscious mind.

The good news is there are a lot of simple, small but powerful techniques you can use to reprogram that all powerful unconscious mind of yours, to order your own life as you want it.  Yes, there IS a way to eliminate the chaos in your life, and it starts within.  It starts by eliminating the often unseen chaos in your own mind.

The technique in this article is only one of a vast array that you can use on a daily basis to improve your life dramatically.  In this article you are learning how to use the law of attraction to attract to yourself what you want.

The law of attraction, like gravity, is undefiable.  You will attract what you are sending out.  Your thoughts are real in the world of attraction.

If your mind is resonating with patterns of anxiety, stress, anger, sadness, envy, grief, or any other negative emotion, you will be attracting more of the same in your life.

One step you can take to change this is to focus on giving to others before you receive yourself.  In this way you are changing your vibration and your focus.  And you open yourself to receive what you had been closing off before.

It is very simple to give.  Give of what you have, and everyone has something to give.  We all have innate value to offer the world.  An abiding philosophy in the law of attraction is to always offer an increase in value, to give back more in value than you receive in money.  In this way you continue to give more than you get and attract more and larger life back to yourself.

Take a moment to look within and find something, anything, no matter how small or simple, to give to anyone, friend or stranger.  Start the practice of giving, and you will take one step towards raising your level of vibration and enhancing the value of what you attract in your own life.  Give something selflessly today, knowing that you will receive it multiplied back in your life, tenfold.


