Off-Page Factors On Doing SEO

SEO, or “Search engine optimization” is a method used by experts to improve a website’s search engine ranking, with the objective of having it in the search results’ “top 10” or at the very least, having it in the first three pages of “search results”.

Off-page SEO pertains to all the influencing factors that determine your website traffic levels and ranking which are not inside the website; they are principally links that comes in your website from other websites referred to as “link popularity”

Link popularity is a key factor utilized by the famous search engines in ranking websites. 
In order for SEO, to be useful, it needs to provide valuable, authentic and educational website content as well as information at the same time maximizing “Off-Page” factors in securing good ranking in search engine positions.

Almost all search engines put a great deal of significance in a website's “link popularity”. They utilize the amount of incoming and outgoing links to websites to establish the relevance of a website for specific keywords or key phrases. Take note that incoming links prove to be more significant compared to outgoing links. 

Google, one of the top search engines, makes use of its “Pager Rank” or “PR” as their means in measuring the “link popularly” of a certain website. When you installed the “Google toolbar”, you easily can view a web’s PR.  A PR of a website is read from 0 to ten, ten being the highest. When you see a grey “PR” bar, it signifies that, that particular website have either not yet been indexed or was dropped or have been banned.

Acquiring quality links coming from good or reputable websites can be a difficult task. A reputable website only will agree to link to your website when you can offer them certain benefits. 

Reciprocal Linking and how to go about it:

Reciprocal linking in simple terms means exchanging links so to enhance link popularity. This often entails sending e-mail letters to certain webmasters of your choice that you find has complementary and relevant content. 
Write a polite, personalized and good e-mail letter to the “webmaster” that you want to “exchange links” with. Here are some guidelines:

1.  Download the Alexa (http://www.alexa.comand) and Google tool bars. Google “tool bar” will permit you to view the “PR” of other websites, so that you are aware which sites have great traffic and link with them. The Alexa “tool bar” supplies you with estimates of the website's traffic as well as the sites that are being linked to it. 

2. Visit particular websites that you want to “exchange links” with in order that you will know what that particular website is all about. 

3. Send email letters to websites which you want to be linked with.  In your letter, mention important things regarding your website and explain the benefits of having a “link exchange” for both your sites as well as both your visitors. 
Place a “link” to the website and inform the webmaster as to where he can find the link. Likewise, furnish the key phrase or keywords that you need to be “linked”. 

4. Broadcast your willingness to “exchange links” in your website. You may use a "reciprocal linking" link or "link to us" as well as a “web-form” for possible “link partners” to enter their details. 

Incoming “one way linking” and how to go about it:

Incoming “one way links” are considered by webmasters to be the best kind of links that one can for one’s website, but also one that is hard to acquire. They can increase link popularity and website PR. They point out to all “search engines” that your website is an expert on key phases or keyword employed to “link” to you. 

Here are some guidelines:

1. Construct an informative, good quality and educational website or unique, educational and authentic web page content. Great content is what webmaster look for so to refer you to their visitors by way of links going to your website. 

2. Offer free tools and helpful service in your website. 

3. Give something away for free at your website, such as quality e-books, downloadable trial software, gift or a useful program in exchange for “links”. 

4. Arrange an award for winners to link to your website before they can claim their prizes. Make certain that your policy is clear to everyone. 

5. Allot a budget so you can pay for niche directory listing. Present excellent and relevant articles with links directing to your web home page and give your consent to webmasters to display your articles in their sites. 
Link popularity will not grow overnight 

Allocate a time each week just for working on building links, so that it becomes a regular habit.  Select one day each week as well as schedule the time.  You need to oblige yourself on a regular basis and make your priority, or else you can not accomplish it. 

Note that “link building” is gradual and accumulating process. Over time all the links will start to add up until such time that there will be hundreds and even thousands linking to you. 

