SEO 101

In an increasingly global Internet community, many techniques have surfaced in order that companies may take hold of as much market share as possible. After all, the Internet is used by a huge variety of people from all over the world, each in their own way a potential customer.

Formerly, going through the Internet and finding content relevant to one’s search was simple; only a few websites were up and running online. These days, however, the Internet is a deluge of content in all shapes and sizes, with people of various age groups, backgrounds, and geographic locations, generating their own online publications and content. Therefore, customers rely greatly on various tools made available to them to simplify their lives.

Search engines are online interfaces used to search for relevant content online based on the keywords entered in the field by the Internet users. Therefore, businesses online must find a way to be prioritized among hundreds and thousands of businesses offering similar or congruent content.

One of these methods designed towards maximizing the potential of the Internet for businesses that rely greatly on generating Internet traffic towards their online website is SEO, or Search Engine Optimization. 

Search Engine Optimization is a method used to give a particular website and its content better ranking in a search engine’s query response listings. It usually tries to give websites an edge over others, particularly in those organic or crawler search engines. Organic searches are those listings yielded without payment; crawler search engines simulate the act of crawling through the web and following links through to their respective web pages.

However, like all good things, SEO has come under attack of misuse by people who wanted to take advantage of it. This is the reason why today, SEO is categorized into “white hat SEO”, or SEO legitimately used by consulting agencies to assist clients online, and “black hat SEO”, used to manipulate search engine listings with unethical methods.

While “black hat SEO” makes use of unethical methods to manipulate listings and to deceive others, “white hat SEO” focuses on honest methods of improving a website and its contents in order to promote it in the Internet much better.

Many websites try generating traffic to their website by various methods—pay-per-click advertisings, prepaid advertisements, and organic search listings. SEO is much more interested in increasing profitability through the last method, organic search listings.

Pay-per-click advertising, which entails the advertiser to pay Google or similar agencies only for the number of clicks an online advertisement banner generates and not for ad placement, may ride up costs. This happens when the website tops listings and generates traffic from a huge client base, of which not all of them are interested in purchasing the product or service that will provide the company profit.

Organic search listings, however, display listings of websites regardless of whether or not they are paid. What SEO primarily does in order to maximize the power of organic search listings is concentrating relevant keywords.

“White hat SEO”, because it focuses on improving websites collectively in order to generate genuine rankings in listings, concentrates on better content for the website. Accurate portrayal of a business’s identity is at the core of ethical SEO.

The first way to do it is by making a clean code, which is a significantly simpler code aimed more in delivering content to the users of the website. A cleaner, simpler code, helps crawler search engines decipher the relationships and links between pages and keywords.

The second means is creating beefed up content written in order to provide information and maximum satisfaction to customers. Search engines take into account the ‘satisfaction’ of customers on the basis of relevance of content and even the frequency of visits, usually related to the quality of the content offered by the website. By concentrating on providing quality information and content to customers, the website gains grounding among online visitors.

At the end of the day, by helping the consumers understand and interpret better the content of the website even at the point of indices in search engines, one can best maximize SEO and the rankings of the page in listings. Relevance is key in trying to make sure traffic is directed towards the business’s website; only by providing relevant content can longevity be achieved amidst various trends that claim to provide the business all it needs. 
