Title: 
10 great tips for getting more visitors from your articles

Word Count:
420

Summary:
Here is a depressing fact if you have your shop on the web: the reason number one people go online is not to buy things but to find free information.
But this can be a great news - if you write free articles. It means you have a technique you can plug in and use if you need more traffic.


Keywords:
Article, Article writing, Article directory


Article Body:
Here is a depressing fact if you have your shop on the web: the reason number one people go online is not to buy things but to find free information.
But this can be a great news - if you write free articles. It means you have a technique you can plug in and use if you need more traffic.
Writing articles is one of the quickest and easiest ways of bringing targeted traffic to your homepage. Your articles will bring you traffic from 3 sources:
1) Search Engines: the URL in your resource box increases your link popularity, your Pagerank and this will resulting in higher search engine rankings for your website
2) Newsletters: there are only a few ezine publishers who write their own content. They need free articles from people like us.
3) Homepages: webmasters want content-rich websites. They also need your articles to publish it on there sites.
Here are some great tips and tricks for getting more traffic and more visitors from your articles:
1. Check your articles with SpamAssassin. So you can be sure that Spamkillers will not delete your articles.
2. Don't put a date in your article copyright - articles you wrote 2 years ago may still be relevant but if the copyright says 2003, publishers will believe the information is out-of-date.
3. Submit your articles to the article announcement lists.
4. Start your article with a sentence that grabs your reader's attention. Surfers are bombarded with information on the Internet: they will decide whether to read your article in the first sentence. If it intrigues them, if it startles them, if it excites them, if it engages them, if it challenges them, they willll stop reading.
5. Create a 'My Articles' list for people who want to receive your latest articles. Put a sign-up form on your website and invite your visitors to join.
6. Create a zip file containing all your previous articles as text or html  files. Publish the download link on your website, in your signature file, in your autoresponders, and in your newsletter.
7. Write your Resource Box in the third person and not in the form an ad: Ezine Publishers may like your article but object to your Resource Box.
8. Submit your articles to all online article directories who you can find. Try an Google search with "article directory"or "publish article for free".
9. When you submit your articles to the article lists, include URLs for your article and or homepage.
10. Likewise, include your article's autoresponder address.
That's it. All the information you need to get more traffic from your articles!


