Title: 
5 Ways To Make Money With One Article

Word Count:
659

Summary:
Would you like to know a winning formula on how to make money on the Web from writing articles? Here's how I do it: I write an article, create 4-5 versions of it, and sell it for use by others in my same profession. In fact, just that one part of my business generates enough income to fully support myself comfortably. Just about anyone in any profession or business can copy this formula.

I write articles for executive coaches and business consultants. They use different ve...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Would you like to know a winning formula on how to make money on the Web from writing articles? Here's how I do it: I write an article, create 4-5 versions of it, and sell it for use by others in my same profession. In fact, just that one part of my business generates enough income to fully support myself comfortably. Just about anyone in any profession or business can copy this formula.

I write articles for executive coaches and business consultants. They use different versions of my articles in their own newsletters, with their own names in the byline. When they purchase an article, they get reprint rights, but not exclusivity. But since they are in all parts of the country, and the world, they don't bump into others using the same article. They are also free to change the article.

This formula can be used in any industry. Let's say you are a veterinarian. You know a lot about pets, and about your vet clinic clients. You can easily write articles that appeal to your customers who are pet owners. You may already write and publish a regular newsletter with articles that appeal to your clients and potential clients.

What's to stop you from writing your article to suit the needs of other vets who need to send out a newsletter? You post a brief synopsis of this article on your website for vets, offering it to them for a fee. They buy the reprint rights, and it gets used by hundreds of other vets who want to save themselves time and energy on their own newsletters.

That is one way of making money by writing articles on the Web, but here are four more ways, all from the same article.

This same article is revised several times in several lengths. It can be sold in three different lengths, for example, 2000 words to form a 4-page newsletter, 1000 words for a 2-page newsletter, and 600-700 words for electronic email ezines. That makes three more ways to sell the same article.

You also take that same article, change the title, make it more personal adding your own experiences, including your personal details and website links. You submit it to article directories on the web.

This version of your article with your name on it gets picked up - this time for free - by other websites looking for content. Each time another website publishes your article on their site, they link back to your site. The more incoming links you have to your website, the higher value the search engines give you.

This means you will start coming up higher in the search engine rankings when people type in key words in Google or one of the other search directories. That is a fifth way to make money from the same article. This technique is more indirect. Your article is being used for free, but the linking power will drive new customers to your site.

Finally, you can use this same article, or another altered version of it on your own website and blogs, to attract new clients to you. Having quality content on your site and on your blogs will ensure that readers appreciate your expertise and use your services, or buy your products.

Here's a bonus idea for making money from your articles: compile a group of articles about the same topic, format them into a PDF e-book, and sell it on your site.

You probably have knowledge and expertise in your own field that others would pay for, in order to have quality content for their own newsletters. This method requires good writing skills, or you can hire a professional editor to help you. It also requires you master the art of marketing on the web in order to reach potential buyers of your articles. To market successfully, you can submit your articles to the many article directories on the Web, and quickly build traffic to your websites and blogs.


