Title: 
Book Report Basics

Word Count:
436

Summary:
A book report is defined as a short summary of a book, the reader’s interpretation of it and their reaction. While every book report does include details, it is most often customized to it’s audience with an emphasis on related aspects studied in a classroom or educational group.

From an educators viewpoint, the goal of a book report is to test the student’s reading comprehension, their ability to relay their thoughts in a clear manner and their writing ability. Educators ...


Keywords:
book report


Article Body:
A book report is defined as a short summary of a book, the reader’s interpretation of it and their reaction. While every book report does include details, it is most often customized to it’s audience with an emphasis on related aspects studied in a classroom or educational group.

From an educators viewpoint, the goal of a book report is to test the student’s reading comprehension, their ability to relay their thoughts in a clear manner and their writing ability. Educators commonly assign book reports to students in order to help them to build or acquire additional knowledge about a particular subject and to help them better understand how to interpret a book and it’s meaning.

From a writer’s standpoint, book reports are often used to entice readers to buy a specific book that has recently been released. This is commonly called a book review, which usually includes the columnist’s viewpoint, opinion and criticism (if any) of the book. Much similar to the structure of a movie review, a journalist is often employed to critique book’s and their storyline. This provides potential readers with insight and often persuades or deters another from buying a particular book.

The structure of a book report will depend solely on the age group that it is being tailored for. An example would be that of an elementary class and how their book report would greatly differ from that written by a college student. In general, however, every book report will be similar in it’s layout. Commonly consisting of a title, brief introduction, the main body of the report including a plot or summary and several concluding paragraphs at the end. The final paragraphs would offer the individual’s personal viewpoint or interpretation of the book and a conclusion as to how that particular book is relative to the subject area being studied.

The actual length of a book report will again vary depending on the age group for which it is intended. Most book report assignments will range from one to three pages. Higher learning students are often asked to further examine details of the book and offer a more in-depth interpretation of the book’s characters, the plot, etc.

Writing a book report can require extensive reading, planning and finally writing. The actual length of time that it may take to complete a book report will depend on the length of the book and the requested length of the book report itself. Generally, a book report assignment is requested within one or two weeks. In certain circumstances, additional time may be granted.


