Title: 
Geek Yourself Up And Out Of The “Bozone”

Word Count:
453

Summary:
10 geeky terms to master and keep yourself up with the latest trends


Keywords:
Geek, geeky terms, geeky words, geeky vocabulary, AVnex, new words, new vocabulary, new terms


Article Body:
“What’s that,” you say? If you’re not quite sure what a “bozone” is, just keep reading. This Information-Aged world is spinning fast, and so is its vocabulary. Geek is no longer a euphemism for nerd or freak. It’s taking on the much more fashionable definition of a hi-tech-savvy person who speaks in the latest technical terms about the latest technical gadgets. If you want to understand what they have to say, you’re going to need to learn some new terms. If not, you might find yourself clueless when your colleagues have so much fun nicknaming your boss “a noisy seagull”, and you just stand there forcing a smile. So make friends with some new words even if they are just street terms, and spare yourself the rare occasion that ruins your day. Here are some terms with less than 10,000 hits from major search engines; you can expect them to catch on very soon:

(1) Bozone: The persistent atmosphere around an intellectually challenged person, which prevents any technological information from penetrating and educating them.
(2) A Seagull Manager: a manager who makes quick visits around the office, flusters everybody, makes a lot of noise, and then leaves just as suddenly.
(3) Open-Collar Worker: or telecommuter, a person who works from home with his wireless computer.
(4) Square-Headed Girlfriend or Square-Headed Boyfriend (less frequent): another term for a computer, especially when talking about computer addiction.
(5) Computer Widow/Widower: the victim of a square-headed girlfriend, or a square-headed boyfriend.
(6) The Elvis Year: the most successful year, or the peak of somebody or something.
(7) Nickvoice and Nickface: coined by the media morphing Avnex, Inc. and widely used by the media morphing industry and community to refer to the anonymous vocal or visual identities provided by morphing programs (morphers), for the sake of their user’s safety.
(8) Lullabouy: an idea that keeps floating in your head, and prevents you from falling sleep.
(9) Blamestorming: a session in which a group discusses how to decide who gets blamed for a failure.
(10) Xerox Subsidy: humorous term for using company photocopy machines for personal purposes.

My last geek term for you: Search Engines. Don’t laugh. You might master bug, backdoor, phishing, messengers, blogging, and lifestreaming. You might also have already heard some of the above ten words, as well as many other geeky terms listed in countless articles everywhere. But what the old friends Search Engines give you is far more valuable than just the words and their meanings. It’s the initiative they provide for the smart users that keeps you on the forefront of the geek language, and turns you into a pro at water cooler jokes and company parties, always ready to throw out the very latest terms.


