Title: 
How To Write Copy That Sells

Word Count:
773

Summary:
This article will teach you five proven strategies for writing effective copy for all of your marketing materials.


Keywords:
online marketing, email list, mailing list, small business marketing, internet marketing, coaches and consultants, entrepreneurs, ezine marketing, online business


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Alicia M Forest and ClientAbundance.com

One of the most expensive business tasks to outsource is hiring a copywriter to write the sales copy for your products and services. Fortunately, you can learn to write effective sales copy yourself, and the strategies below will help you get off to a great start.

By the way, you can apply these proven techniques to any copy where you're asking your reader to do something, whether that's to sign up for your newsletter or purchase your product. Apply them to your web pages, sales letters, email promotions, and other marketing materials to more effectively reach your reader.

1. Create a Strong Headline

Your headline can make or break your sales copy. Besides being the first thing your reader sees, it also must be strong enough to compel the reader to continue reading the rest of your copy.

Collect samples of headlines that you've come across that have struck a chord with you and use them as a model when you're creating your own compelling headlines.

If you're a complete novice when it comes to writing headline copy, a great tool to get you started is Lorrie Morgan-Ferrero's Instant Headline Creator.

2. Include Subheads

When people read online, they tend to skim. Having subheads that stand out, by being bolded or in a different color than the rest of the copy, can help you make a stronger case for your offering, if used correctly.

Include the most compelling of your benefits in your subheads. And make sure that they do the same thing that your headline does - engages the reader enough so they continue reading.

3. Make Your Copy Easy on the Eyes

Like using subheads, also include white space, bulleted lists, and some graphics (go easy here!) to break up your copy to make it easier for your reader to read online.

4. Turn All Your Features Into Benefits

Take out a sheet of paper and list as many features of your offering that you can possibly think of. Then, in your copy, turn each of these into a benefit for your prospect.

For example, if one of your features is "four coaching sessions a month" say something like, "you get weekly access to coaching with me, so we can make sure you stay on track toward your goals."

5. Give Them the Good Stuff First

Unlike in an informercial, you don't want to wait until the end of your copy to reveal the biggest and best asset of your offering. Tell your reader the most compelling benefit to them of your offering first, then talk about the rest of your benefits throughout your copy.

6. Use "You" Not "I"

As you're creating your copy, write as though you're having a conversation with your potential client or customer. Keeping your copy in a conversational style will help to engage the reader, and make them feel as though you're really talking to them.

Instead of saying "I teach..." say "You'll learn...". Make it about them by continuously answering the question in your prospect's mind, "What in it for me?" and you'll have winning copy every time.

7. Include Testimonials

Scattered throughout your copy, include testimonials to increase your credibility with your prospects. If it's a new product or service, you can use testimonials from some of your other offerings, making sure you indicate what product or service the testimonials are talking about so as not to confuse the reader.

The most effective testimonials include the giver's full name and website address or city and state. Include a photo and/or audio to increase your credibility even more.

8. Make it ABUNDANTLY clear what your reader should do.

Make sure you tell your reader exactly what it that you want them to do. If you want them to sign up for your newsletter, say, "Enter your email address below to sign up for the newsletter." If you want them to purchase your product, say "Click here to place your order."

If your copy is long, tell your reader what they should do scattered at regular intervals throughout the page.

9. Proofread.

Make sure someone other than you takes a good look at your final draft - even if it's your mother. :) People do make buying decisions based on good grammar, believe it or not, so have your virtual assistant review your copy or hire a professional to do so before you put it out in the marketplace.

Follow these tips and I guarantee you'll engage your reader and entice them to do whatever it is that you're asking them to, whether it's to sign up for your newsletter, hire you for your services, or buy your product.


