Title: 
How To Write A Book Without Writing A Book

Word Count:
572

Summary:
Do you want to be an author? Or would you like to have your own e-book to sell on the Internet?

Maybe you just want an e-book to give away as a promotion for your products or services. At the same time you realize a popular e-book will be useful in building your reputation as an expert in a particular field.

If having your own e-book is on your wish list, you don’t have to spend hours punching a computer keyboard to make that wish come true. In fact, your book may alrea...


Keywords:
public,domain,private,label,article


Article Body:
Do you want to be an author? Or would you like to have your own e-book to sell on the Internet?

Maybe you just want an e-book to give away as a promotion for your products or services. At the same time you realize a popular e-book will be useful in building your reputation as an expert in a particular field.

If having your own e-book is on your wish list, you don’t have to spend hours punching a computer keyboard to make that wish come true. In fact, your book may already have been written. And it’s just waiting to earn you cash and recognition.

How is this possible? Through the power of the public domain.

There is a world of books, courses, songs, poems and stories in the public domain... all with expired copyright protection, or never having been copyrighted material. In other words, you and I are allowed to use this content in any way we want.

For example, you can find books and courses that were published before copyright laws existed or perhaps the copyright has expired. Creators of other material may not have bothered with a copyright or may have donated their work into the public domain. Also, there is a staggering amount of material published every year by the U.S. government that is available to you copyright free.

How can you put this huge resource to work generating cash for you?

One individual discovered a lost book on strength building that contained a lot of valuable and forgotten information. He converted the book into a course and it is still selling strong. To date, that one book has earned him over a million dollars.

Where do you find this material? How do you determine whether it is truly copyright free? How do you convert it into a useable format that you can load into your computer for editing or printing?

You have two choices. You can do all this yourself. Though it could take weeks, perhaps months of research. It will require paying a lawyer to check for copyrights. And you can spend an enormous amount of time and money converting the book into a useable format on your computer.

Your second choice is to have all this done by someone else. Wow... was this ever a revelation to me! Instead of weeks, I had a public domain book ready to start selling in days. And within 48 hours, I had two sales that paid for my entire investment. Every sale since then has been 100% profit.

Forget all the research, the lawyers, the reformatting, and the expensive marketing tools. There are sites that will do all of that work for you.

Remember, one of the big reasons some people are making huge bucks on the Internet is because they leave the nitty gritty work to others. That gives them the freedom to concentrate on the important job of marketing.

If you get nothing else out of this article but that one truth, it can put you well on the road to success. Someone once said, "Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today."

My motto is, "Never do today what you can get others to do for you." Then use that time you save to think, plan and execute. Within an amazingly short time, you could become one of those people that we talk about as ‘making a killing on the Internet’.


