Title: 
How To Write Dynamite Articles That Deliver Traffic To Your Website

Word Count:
508

Summary:
Everyone does it: We fall for “gotcha” Internet advertising for this or that product that promises to provide the ultimate answer or solution to what we need or want. We pay cold hard cash for products or information only to wind up bitterly disappointed. I don’t know about you, but I now look at Internet advertising with a jaundiced eye.

But I finally found someone I trust. It’s Jim Edwards. Although he’s well known and respected on the Internet, it took me many weeks of ...


Keywords:
writing articles, Jim Edwards, Turn Words into Traffic,


Article Body:
Everyone does it: We fall for “gotcha” Internet advertising for this or that product that promises to provide the ultimate answer or solution to what we need or want. We pay cold hard cash for products or information only to wind up bitterly disappointed. I don’t know about you, but I now look at Internet advertising with a jaundiced eye.

But I finally found someone I trust. It’s Jim Edwards. Although he’s well known and respected on the Internet, it took me many weeks of reading his materials and watching his videos before I decided to take a chance on him.

When I learned about his ebook “Turn Words into Traffic”, I was excited, but didn’t order it until I thought long and hard about what he promised to deliver. When I decided to go for it, I thought that if it did not measure up, I would send it back.

I bought “Turn Words into Traffic” because I write articles, and like most writers, I always look for ways to improve. I’ve been writing a long time and frankly, I did not expect to learn too much new, but he promised so much valuable information that I wanted to know.

Am I ever glad I bought “Turn Words into Traffic” !

Unfortunately, the title does not reveal the huge volume and variety of information the ebook provides. You will discover information you never expected.

You will find “Turn Words into Traffic” so easy to understand. The pages are packed solid with “to the point” stuff you need to know. Jim provides tons of detailed “how to” examples to help you get it right. He takes you by the hand with step-by- step instructions. He recommends websites, software and outstanding information not found elsewhere.

It’s amazing. I can’t find a better word to describe it.

I take the ebook with me when I go on errands that require waiting, or whenever I have downtime. That’s the best way to appreciate and digest all the good stuff that’s loaded in “Turn Words into Traffic.”

What I learned from “Turn Words into Traffic” made me realize just how little I know about writing effective articles.

For example, Jim gives 10 words you should NEVER use in article writing. In all my years of writing, no one provided such simple but vital information. Jim taught (and proved to me) that when I avoid those 10 words (not easy to do but powerful results make it worth the effort.) I have a dynamite article.

After you get “Turn Words into Traffic,” Jim does something totally unexpected. A week later, he sends more information that is valuable at no extra cost. Then he sends some more. And just when you think he’s done, he sends more dynamite information. It totally blew me away.

If you write articles to promote your business or website, but results are disappointing, you must get “Turn Words into Traffic” right now. You will love yourself for making such a smart decision.


