Title: 
The Awesome Experience Of Writing A Journal Part 1

Word Count:
657

Summary:
Keeping a journal is a most rewarding experience. I have had several kinds of journals; one was a book where I wrote in it and another was a binder where I wrote the events of the day and also added everything from a chicken feather to cards, thank you notes and pictures. That was really a fun book. It's amazing the things you forget until you open your journal or look at a picture and all of the related memories instantly come to mind and you can talk about it as if it happe...


Keywords:
family,genealoty,focus on the family,family tree,family holidays,family fun,family cruises


Article Body:
Keeping a journal is a most rewarding experience. I have had several kinds of journals; one was a book where I wrote in it and another was a binder where I wrote the events of the day and also added everything from a chicken feather to cards, thank you notes and pictures. That was really a fun book. It's amazing the things you forget until you open your journal or look at a picture and all of the related memories instantly come to mind and you can talk about it as if it happened today. That is surely amazing!

This amazing book can also tell you details of a special vacation, or your parents 50 year anniversary, or that special day when you turned 21; what about graduation and all of those feelings you felt.? Wouldn't it be neat to read those fond memories? Those words will take you right back to that moment, feelings and all. What about special times with family and friends? I can remember what an eventful day it was when I climbed a mountain. I was awestruck as I watched others climb straight up. To my amazement, my feet just kept moving and I did it too. What an experience to practically do the splits in trying to climb the huge rocks. When I got to the top of the mountain, I stood on a ledge with the very top at chest height and declared that I made it. This fellow told me I hadn't made it as I wasn't on the top. I said I was good where I was. He said I would really regret not getting to the top if I didn't get up there, so, "Get up here!" he said, as he gave me his hand. I was petrified. Though my body was rigid in fear, I crawled to the very top of the mountain that day. I even laid down over a rock straight out from the mountain top and looked down 3000 feet to the ground. I couldn't believe I did that. I am forever grateful to that fellow for talking me into going to the top of the mountain because today, I am unstoppable. I can do whatever I want to do. Success in it's finest is my intention and if I can take others with me, I help them on their way to success as well.

There are also family journals where everyone writes about family events from their perspective. There could be one person who summarizes family events from year to year such as family re-unions. All of those moments and memories come and go and it just takes a wonderful journal to flash them back right before your eyes again.

Parents can keep their favorite drawings and pictures of their children. I have a picture my son drew of me when he was very young and I still feel warm when I look at it. Grandparents can write about their fun times with their grandchildren. Children can start writing journals at quite a young age. My grandson is eight years old and he writes a lot. He writes about sports, school, his friends and other activities. We can write about our pets as we love them so much. I have had numereous pets and loved them all intensely; each one with their own special personality and they were all considered family. Vacations are a great time to keep a family journal. What fond memories and fun when you read and remember the places you visited, restaurants, perhaps new foods you tried, the new people you met and what you did or the hikes you went on. Let's not forget all the souvineres we might have taken home. The pictures that were taken that we can ooo and aaaah over are awesome memories. It is truly endless what you can write about. 

Please read the exciting conclusion of The Awesome Experience Of Writing A Journal Part 2.


