Title: 
Tips For Efficient Travel Writing

Word Count:
448

Summary:
Travel stories should be simple, crisp and to the point with clarity of thought. Witty and vividly written accounts with an author’s personal experiences, anecdotes and quotations can be especially interesting. One can experience travel through words only. Practical and accurate information in grammatically correct language makes reading a pleasure. Some tips on writing accounts of travel are given below.

Think like a Reader
Before starting an article, put your self in th...


Keywords:
travel writing


Article Body:
Travel stories should be simple, crisp and to the point with clarity of thought. Witty and vividly written accounts with an author’s personal experiences, anecdotes and quotations can be especially interesting. One can experience travel through words only. Practical and accurate information in grammatically correct language makes reading a pleasure. Some tips on writing accounts of travel are given below.

Think like a Reader
Before starting an article, put your self in the reader’s boots. Ask what he/she wants. Who are the targeted readers of the particular publication, what are their travel aspirations, what information will be useful to them and how they enjoy the written articles. Once you are clear about that, then commence the work.

Travel Writing: The Big Picture
Now you have to get across the main point to the reader. Identify the central theme of your article, whether it is the location, people or activity oriented place. Work your impressions and facts around this ‘big picture’. Now structure your article around, sieve non-essentials, include important aspects and build the story sensibly.

Travel Writing: Be Personal
To make the story interesting, convey your personal experiences and point of view. That place must have been visited or written about countless times before. Write of your own personal approach, personal adventure that thrilled you, some new aspect of the place that inspired you, some new useful discovery of the place. This makes for an interesting insight into the writing.

Travel Writing: Be Funny
Travel to unfamiliar locale is often rich in comedy and comical events. Incorporate these funny incidents, mishaps or any such feeling into the article. Don’t be afraid to make your readers laugh. Have a light, lively tone in your article.

Travel Writing: Be surprising
Be an open-minded traveler yourself. Try unusual activities, meeting new people, tasting exotic cuisines and getting involved with native activities in a new place. This will give you a different perspective of the place. Surprise your reader with this out of the ordinary, personally experienced information.

Travel Writing: Quote
Let the people express their thoughts, ideas and feelings about the place, work or activity. Quote extensively in their words. Quote real life stories and experiences for that personal touch to your article.

Travel Writing: Be balanced
Have a balanced approach. Blend your personal observations, descriptions and commentary with practical and useful information to the readers to make it a good travel piece. Two-third colorful description to one-third facts is a reasonable guideline to start with.

Travel writing is not only lucrative but lot of fun too. Keep your eyes open for interesting story line. Research well; write a well-constructed, focused, well-crafted and unique article on travel.


