Title: 
Writing/Typing Thoughts: Does It Help Solve a Problem?

Word Count:
478

Summary:
Since my grade school years, I have already practiced writing my thoughts through small diaries and other journals. I always wrote down every single thought inside my head and I try to recuperate with the whole scenario of the day that I had. Since then, and until now, I still use a diary. But the difference is that before I used a huge notebook but now I use my computer. Every now and then, I do have problems like all people do. What I would like to share with you is to how you could help yours


Keywords:
writing, typing, thoughts, problem, solve


Article Body:
Since my grade school years, I have already practiced writing my thoughts through small diaries and other journals. I always wrote down every single thought inside my head and I try to recuperate with the whole scenario of the day that I had. Since then, and until now, I still use a diary. But the difference is that before I used a huge notebook but now I use my computer. Every now and then, I do have problems like all people do. What I would like to share with you is to how you could help yourself solve a problem without the help of anyone but yourself by writing or typing thoughts.

One time in my College years, I had a big problem with some of my friends, I was so depressed that time that I didn’t even want to tell it to anyone, so I found a good friend and confidante with my Personal Computer. As I kept on writing (or typing) every thought in my mind, I sort of felt that it actually helps me release some of the anger that I have felt. The more I typed, the more I felt good. Whenever I type the words at a very fast pace, I could feel the tension growing inside of me as if I’m telling it straight to that someone who is making me very angry. The very feeling that I am somewhat telling it to some shrink or directly to the person is very fulfilling.

What I do is to first, start with the whole story of the day that I had. Second, is that I ask questions to myself. And when I have already typed all of my questions to my self, I try to answer one by one with different perceptions. I first start with a pessimistic point of view then to an optimistic point of view. I try to find out and brainstorm on the specific details that started the fight or the argument. Then I try to read it all over again. By this time, so many solutions come to my head that I can’t stop my fingers from typing all that comes to my head.

By this kind of practice, I have developed my own problem solving techniques. Instead of just thinking and thinking of the whole event and how or why it came about, you better just write or type it down, because it helps on chopping the itsy bitsy teeny weenie details of how it all started. Now, as I see myself, it has been a long time since I confided with someone about a problem. It’s just a matter of chopping information into tidbits and trying to connect every thing that happened until you yourself would come out with a solution. If it worked for me, it can work for you too!


