Title: 
Writing For Success

Word Count:
473

Summary:
Press releases and sales letters are key tools in marketing one’s business in today’s professional world. However, many professionals do not seem to understand the importance of enhancing their writing skills. 

Few people realize that the written materials they send to clients can make or break their business. A badly written press release or sales letter can make one sound like an amateur to a potential client; but a crisp, well-written letter can prove to a client that y...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Press releases and sales letters are key tools in marketing one’s business in today’s professional world. However, many professionals do not seem to understand the importance of enhancing their writing skills. 

Few people realize that the written materials they send to clients can make or break their business. A badly written press release or sales letter can make one sound like an amateur to a potential client; but a crisp, well-written letter can prove to a client that you are the best in your field. You can utilize these marketing techniques if you follow a few simple rules.

First, take a minute to analyze your niche market. Who are these people to whom you are sending your materials? What will spark their interest? Use clear and concise words to detail your product or services, but do not treat your clients as though they cannot understand simple examples. Do not use words that are key words in your industry but not widely used elsewhere.

Second, determine what makes your business unique to your niche market. If you are sending your press release to a business magazine or newspaper, focus on the business aspect of your services. If you are sending a press release to a magazine for women, emphasize how your product can help women. Be sure to carefully research the target market of the medium to which you submit your press release. Most editors will not waste their time with your press release if it does not have an impact on their readers.

Third, make your materials attractive. Most people receive a lot of advertisements and “junk mail” every day and are quick to throw away these items without looking more closely at them. Make your sales letter or press release stand out from the rest by choosing attractive designs and interesting fonts. Add your company’s logo and offer a free service if you are able. Think of new ways to make even your sales envelope catch the eye of your client. 

Finally, proofread your sales letter or press release before sending it to your clients. Make sure to check for spelling errors or grammatical problems as these errors can reflect poorly on your professionalism. Allow someone else to read your material before you send it as they will have a fresh perspective and may be able to clean up your letter or release for you.

Remember to not be overwhelmed by that evasive sales letter or press release. Follow these tips in order to utilize these important marketing tools. As you become accustomed to sending out written materials, you will become more adept at focusing on your client’s needs. Before you realize it, you will be standing out above your competitors. Start today enhancing your writing skills so you can begin marketing with this low-cost but effective technique.


