Child Citizen Protection Act

Various laws are made to safe guard rights of children. Child citizen protection act is one such act to safeguard their nationality.  Child citizen protection act amends the nationality and immigration act. It modifies the provisions made by the previous act. Now the child citizenship act has defined some provisions for children who are born outside United States and want to acquire citizenship.

The United States of America now uses child citizen protection act to give citizenship to children that are born outside United States. A child who is born outside United States will become a member of United States if the mother or the father has citizenship of United States. In order to get a citizenship the child should be less than 18 years old.

The child should also be ready to reside in United States of America in the legal custody of the parent. The citizen parent should also have permanent residence in United States of America. In case the parent does not have any permanent residence then the parent should have a permission to make a permanent residence.

If the child satisfies all the above conditions then only he or she is fit for American citizenship. The child automatically becomes eligible for citizenship if he or she satisfies the above requirements. If the child fails to satisfy any one the above criteria then American citizenship is denied to that child.

All the above laws are applicable to children that are adopted by parents who have American citizenship. To get the citizenship the child should be legally adopted according to the rules and regulations of United States of America.

The child citizen protection act is also amended certain rules to get certificate of citizenship. Children who are born in United States but due to some reasons are staying outside United States can get certificate of citizenship if the parent i.e. father or mother  apply for naturalization for the child who is born outside United States and who have not previously applied for a citizenship under child citizen protection act.

The Attorney general will then give the certificate of citizenship if the father or mother of the child has an American citizenship. The parent should also be present in United States of America for at least 5 years. The parent should also have a permanent residence in United States of America. The child intending to acquire the certificate of citizenship should be less than 18 years old.

The child should also be residing outside United States of America in the legal custody of the parent and has temporarily come to United States. The child should also have a lawful status in United States of America.  If all the above conditions are met successfully by the applicant then the attorney general immediately issues the certificate of citizenship.

When the application is approved the child is supposed to an oath of allegiance before a government official of United States of America. The oath of allegiance has been made mandatory by the child citizen protection act.
