Todays Child Protection Laws

Child abuse that includes sexual, emotion or physical exploitation of the child is considered to be an offense. It is a crime to mistreat children. Teachers in schools hit children with rulers or cane sticks if homework. These teachers think that this is the right way to instill some discipline in children. But this way of thinking is completed wrong. Children who are punished frequently loose their confidence and are unable to achieve anything in their life.

Hence to stop all these offenses towards children child protection laws have been enforced. When a child abuse is reported and neglected by certain persons then these people are liable for severe punishment. A child who is abused or neglected must be given protection. Not taking any cognizance or action even if a case of child abuse is reported then legal action will be taken against the concerned authority.

If it is a case of sexual then medical examination should be done. Child protection laws have prescribed some duties to law enforcement agencies. The law enforcement agencies should sincerely perform their duties in order to safeguard child protection laws. The social service department should take steps to prevent any kind of child abuse. Welfare of children should be given first priority. 

Overall development of children is the main purpose behind implementing child protection laws. Instilling a confidence among children and nurturing their talent is the main aim behind implementing child protection laws.

The child will be a responsible citizen if family life is preserved. If a child is abused then the steps should be taken to solve the case immediately.   Child protection laws also state that a legal counsel should be appointed if necessary. Provision of civil and criminal immunity to certain people. In certain cases of child abuse confidentiality of records is a must and should not be leaked.

The concerned authority should take the necessary steps to keep the matter confidential. The child protection laws have prescribed penalties against those who abuse children. The penalties vary according to the form of abuse.

Child protection laws are strictly implemented in developed countries like United States. Hence cases of child abuse are less in such countries. Whereas these laws are not seriously implemented in developing countries. It is the responsibility of every responsibility of every individual that the child protection laws are followed strictly.
Child protection laws are applicable to every child and do not differ from one country to another.

Child protection laws are also made for the upliftment of underprivileged children. Under privileged children are forced to work at an early age. These children are deprived of education and other basic amenities. As per the children protection laws children who are less than 14 years cannot work in any company or shops.

These children also cannot be hired for domestic work. People who hire children that are less than 14 years are eligible for punishment. Child protection laws if implemented properly will not only be beneficial for the child but also for the entire country.
