Child Internet Protection

On the internet there are various websites that display offensive content. The content may be violent material or internet pornography. It becomes necessary to protect children who are less than 14 years. Offensive content that is shown on the internet is considered to be harmful for children.

It can have adverse effects on the child. In fact such information may spoil the child. Today internet is easily accessible to children. Parents need to keep on what their children are doing when they are surfing the net.

The child internet protection act is a law that is passed by Congress to restrict children from accessing offensive content. This federal law was passed in December 2000 to address the problems that may arise due to precarious information that is available on the internet.

According to this law schools desiring internet connection through “E  rate” program are required to satisfy some conditions. E rate programs make internet technology available to eligible libraries and schools in an affordable manner.

Under this act a school will get internet connection through E program if it has an internet safety policy and a technology protection measure such as internet software that blocks or filters pictures that are obscene and harmful to minors. The school is required to enforce a police for monitoring online activities of students. Schools need to implement a policy that addresses issues related to access of inappropriate internet mater.

The policy also needs to address issues about the security and safety of children when they are using chat rooms or any other form of electronic communication. The policy should also be aware of unauthorized access in the form of hacking and other illegal activities. The policy also needs to restrict access of minors from any kind of harmful material.

Schools wanting E rate funding are required to have a certificate stating that they are having safety internet policies. This act mentions that there is no need to keep a track of internet use as long as the school has installed the child internet protection software.

It is necessary to implement child internet protect in every school so as to protect children from unpleasant content. Future of the world lies in the hands of children. Hence, for a healthier environment in school, this law needs to be implemented. Child internet protection is possible by using child internet protection software. There are many companies offering child internet protection software. You can always take the help of internet to find the websites that provide list of companies offering child internet protection software.

Child internet protection software blocks successfully any garbage content. So if you have children in your house and you don’t want your kid to watch any precarious information on the internet then this can be achieved by installing child internet protection software. You can block offensive emails and instant messages with the help of child internet protection software.

You can also stop unauthorized access to your private information using this software. Generally, hackers try to access your private card number through the internet. 
