How to Make It through Airport Security with Ease

Are you in the process of preparing for a trip?  If you are, does your trip require that you travel by air?  If so, you may be concerned about airport security checkpoints.  Even everyday individuals, who mean no harm, experience some nervousness and uncertainty when they think of airport security.  The good news, however, is that there are some steps that you can take to help get you through airport security with ease.  A few of these tips are highlighted below for your convenience.

The best way to pass through airport security with ease and without experiencing any complications or delays is by knowing all airport security rules and restrictions.  Although you will want to use your best judgment, you will also want to take the time to visits the website for the TSA, which is located at www.tsa.gov.  There, you will find all that you need to know about airport security rules and restrictions, such as prohibited items, as well as tips to help you.

As for making it through airport security with ease, there are many professionals who recommend purchasing your airline tickets well in advance of your trip.  Apparently, you are less likely to be stopped and fully screened by airport security when doing so.  For many, last minute travelers send off signals or red flags.  Even if this is untrue, there is still no harm that can come from booking your airline reservations in advance.

Next, it is important to make sure that you are carrying proper identification with you.  Most airline workers, especially those at the ticket counter, will ask to see a form of identification.  For adults, this identification needs to include a picture.  State identification cards or driver’s licenses are ideal.  For domestic travel, children can often get away without showing identification.

Before you leave for the airport, go through your luggage one more time.  This is particularly a good idea with your carry-on luggage.  Do you see anything that looks out of the ordinary?  If you do, you may want to leave that item at home or else pack it in a checked bag.  Anything that looks suspicious, even though it may not be, may hold you up at airport security, resulting in unnecessary delays.

All air travelers, including children, are required to remove their shoes before walking through the metal detectors.  For that reason, you will want to remove your shoes ahead of time.  You will need to do so anyways, so get started earlier, which can help to keep the security line moving along in a timely fashion.  Also, be sure to wear comfortable and easy to remove shoes.  

In addition to shoes, all air travelers are required to remove certain clothing pieces, such as belts, jackets, and possibly even bulky sweatshirts.  For that reason, you will want to come to the airport dressed simple, yet comfortably.  You will want to remove these items ahead of time and have them ready to place in a security bin.

Also, make sure that when you pack your carry-on luggage that you have all liquids in a separate bag.  In fact, the TSA has a 3-1-1 policy that they follow.  This policy states that small liquid containers, like those for liquid makeup or contact lens solution, must be three ounces in size or smaller.  Each person must put all liquids in a one quart ziplock bag and one bag is permitted for each person.  

If you are traveling with young children, you will want to take steps to prepare your child for the airport security process.  Make sure they are wearing comfortable and easy to remove shoes and jackets, as they will still need to be removed.  If your child can walk, they will need to go through the airport metal detectors themselves, so be sure to talk about doing so with your child.  In fact, you may want to arrive at the airport a few minutes early so that your child can see others going through airport security with ease.

PPPPP

Word Count 668
