Tips for Last Minute Air Travelers

Have you recently decided that you would like to take a last minute trip?  Whether you are interested in visiting Hawaii, California’s wine country, or another popular vacation destination in the United States, you will want to get started with your planning right away.  With last minute trips, you have the same number of travel arrangements to make, but in a much shorter period of time.

Speaking of making your travel arrangements, you will want to go with an airline that is known for its affordable rates.  You may also want to choose an airline that you have traveled with before, as this often results in less surprises.  If this is your first time traveling by air, you may want to quickly ask your friends or family members for airline recommendations or even warnings.  

In keeping with reservations, if you don’t have time to examine all of the airlines individually and their rates, you may want to turn to online travel websites.  When doing so, go to the bigger name sites, as they are typically more reliable.  Online travel websites allow you to search for flights with flexible timeframe windows.  You should also receive quotes from a number of different airlines.  For last minute travelers, online travel websites are one of the best ways to get the best deals in the quickest amount of time.
 
It is also important to remember not to overpay.  Unfortunately, this is something that many last minute travelers end up doing.  If you are flying out for an emergency, like to see a sick loved one, you may want to make your travel arrangement right away and at any cost.  However, if you are simply just looking to take a last minute vacation or a quick weekend trip, be sure to price compare.  As previously stated, online travel websites are an easy way to do so.  They can allow you to compare the rates and flight times of multiple airlines, all in a few minutes worth of time.  For that reason, you should never have to pay more than you need to, even at the last minute.

Once you have your travel arrangements made, you will want to quickly create a checklist for yourself.  This is important, as many last minute travel plans are rushed, including packing.  As soon as you have five or ten minutes free, sit down and create a checklist for yourself.  Do you need to bring your digital camera or laptop computer?  How many changes of clothes do you need?  Be sure to check each item off of your checklist as you later pack it.  This will help to prevent errors and confusion.

It is also important to take the time to familiarize yourself with airport security rules and restrictions.  When rushing to plan a last minute trip and pack, you are more likely to make mistakes.  You can visit the TSA’s online website to get a quick summary of air travel rules and restrictions.  You can also use your best judgment as well.  For example, you know your shoes will be removed, so wear comfortable and easy to remove shoes.  Also, leave all sharp objects at home or at least pack them in your checked luggage, as opposed to in a carry-on bag.

As for arriving for your flight, all last minute travelers are urged to think like everyday travelers.  Just because you made your travel plans at the last minute, it doesn’t mean that you should arrive at the airport at the last minute.  Generally speaking, you will want to arrive about an hour and half before your flight is scheduled to leave; however, it all depend on your departing airport.  Larger airports sometimes recommend arriving three hours in advance.

The above mentioned tips may be able to assist you when looking to plan a last minute vacation or a last minute weekend trip.  By taking the time to at least know what you are doing, your trip can go off without a hitch; in fact, it can appear as if it is a trip that you have been planning for months!

PPPPP

Word Count 683
