Title: 
Colocation Hosting

Word Count:
408

Summary:
Colocation hosting, what’s that?


Keywords:
Data Backup and Recovery Service, Secure Data Backup, Virtual Private Network, MaNAged Virtual Private Network, Virtual Private Network in Banking, MaNAged VPN Services, VPN Services


Article Body:
What’s colocation hosting? 

Colocation hosting wherein multiple customers locate network, server and storage gear and interconnects to a volley of telecommunications and various other network service provider thus minimizes the complexity and cost. Have a dedicated hosting right away and enjoy complete freedom.

Added features of dedicated hosting!

Data centers should be monitored 24-7. Your systems should be housed in a state-of-the-art data center, with redundant air cooling and filtering systems, designed to operate even in the event of a power failure. Data centers should be located and built to withstand natural disasters, and other emergencies. Don’t you want to safeguard your data centre too. Evaluate your business's power, cooling and security requirements and design a solution that meets your need and scales to allow you to adapt in the future. Appropriate to businesses both large and small, co-location is a highly flexible, cost-effective and best practice solution to ensuring your business' IT service uptime. 

Be one among the world’s leading players or excel them with secure and well managed colocation. Colocation pricing queries can be dealt with our online professionals with just a click or a phone call. Have a single rack or a dedicated private suite, your servers and core systems need to be housed in a secure, well managed, and environmentally controlled environment. Sometimes the server is hosted with one and the other provides the Internet connectivity. Here, there are issues with cross-connection fees, which can complicate the matter. The host must be able to provide uninterrupted connectivity without any major hiccups.

Colocation hosting can offer reliable power with clean, uninterruptible power, through a combination of multiple power grids, generators, and best-of-breed maintenance practices. Colocation facilities manage their climate with two kinds of dedicated cooling systems, chillers and CRAC units. Chillers are systems of pipes which circulate chilled water throughout the server rooms. CRAC units (computer room air-conditioning units) are targets air conditioners which never shut off. Servers generate enough heat to overheat a several-thousand square foot room in only a few minutes; by continuously cycling, CRAC units prevent heat buildup in server rooms.

•  Single rack to full private suite options
•  Fully complemented value-added connectivity and managed service solutions
•  Have high bandwidth on-net network connectivity to tier one carrier backbones for Internet access and private network connectivity
•  Ensuring maximum security and uptime

Meet the requirements of your business! Get on to the online route and find a Colocation Hosting provider for your business.


