Title: 
New Data Recovery Technologies for NTFS Hard Disks

Word Count:
422

Summary:
NTFS disk recovery is a complex process that can only be handled by trained specialists shall you pursue the option of turning yourself to a data recovery service. Fortunately, you can also do it yourself by using appropriate NTFS  disk recovery software.


Keywords:
NTFS  Recovery, ntfs disk recovery, disk recovery, data recovery, ntfs data recovery


Article Body:
NTFS partitions are infinitely more robust than their older FAT counterparts. Unfortunately, even NTFS volumes are not guaranteed against failures, corruption and data loss. Various reasons contribute to the NTFS failures, including hardware and software failures, power outages and malicious actions performed by viruses, trojans and other malware.

Due to the nature of the NTFS, this file system is more complex and way more complicated to analyze and recover than the FAT. When it comes to data repair, NTFS partitions are at huge disadvantage due to shortage of specialized data recovery tools that can handle such partitions correctly. The many reliability and security control structures integrated into the NTFS make developing NTFS disk recovery products a challenge.

Using Windows built-in disk check for the NTFS disk recovery can help sometimes, but more often than not it'll get you into more trouble if there's more than a moderate degree of corruption present. Besides, Windows checkdisk never goes beyond fixing the file system structures, while you care about your files and data more than the integrity of the NTFS disk.
 
NTFS disk recovery is a complex process that can only be handled by trained specialists shall you pursue the option of turning yourself to a data recovery service. Fortunately, you can also do it yourself by using appropriate NTFS disk recovery software.

1st NTFS Recovery by www.ntfs-recovery.com is one of the few NTFS disk recovery products dedicated to disks and partitions formatted with the NTFS file system. This NTFS disk recovery product can put your system back on track in a matter of minutes! No matter how serious the corruption and how bad the damage, 1st NTFS Recovery will recover your files and data, fix the file system, and restore access to inaccessible partitions completely automatically. 
 
Unlike Windows disk checking tools, 1st NTFS Recovery attempts to recover your files and data before it goes on with the file system structures. The NTFS is a complex and highly fragile logical structure; why risk your own data when you can recover it safely and efficiently without writing anything to the damaged partition?
 
You can even preview the contents of the corrupted partition and view your  Office documents and digital pictures before the recovery. 1st NTFS Recovery fully supports the now-popular Live Preview feature that allows previewing the content of the lost and damaged files before the actual recovery.
  
NTFS disk recovery tools from the source. Get 1st NTFS Recovery to save your files and fix your disks!
 
Download Url: http://ntfs-recovery.com/download.php


