Title: 
Recovering Digital Pictures from Hard Disks and Flash Memory Cards

Word Count:
476

Summary:
Deleted a photo from your computer or removed it from your digital camera? No problem! You can always restore lost pictures easily with Magic Photo Recovery!


Keywords:
recover, undelete, unerase, restore, uneraser, photo, image, picture, deleted, lost, ntfs, fat, files, hdd, data, get back, data recovery, undelete software, unerase software, undelete program, fat recovery, ntfs recovery, unerase ntfs, unerase fat


Article Body:
Today, most digital pictures and family photo albums are stored electronically on a computer. These electronic images are much more vulnerable than traditional paper albums. Images could disappear from your PC if the system is attacked by a virus. An entire photo album can be deleted or corrupted by faulty software. Digital pictures can disappear from a memory card if you remove it from the camera when it saves your most recent snapshot, or if the operating temperature is too hot or too cold for that particular memory card. Is this a problem? Not at all! You can always restore lost pictures easily with Magic Photo Recovery!

Magic Photo Recovery (http://www.magicuneraser.com/) recovers lost and deleted images completely automatically. An easy step-by-step wizard recovers digital pictures lost or deleted from hard disks, digital cameras, memory cards and a variety of storage media in a quick and effortless manner. Deleted a photo from your computer or removed it from your digital camera? No problem! Magic Photo Recovery will scan the entire disk or memory card to locate and recover every picture you deleted. Formatted a memory card or repartitioned the entire hard drive? No problem! Magic Photo Recovery recovers images from disks and flash cards even if they were repartitioned and reformatted several times. Magic Photo Recovery recovers images deleted from the Recycle Bin or lost after a system failure, reads pictures from formatted or corrupted memory cards, and can even recover digital pictures and RAW files directly from the camera!

The improved recovery algorithm carefully analyzes the entire disk or memory card sector by sector, locates lost or deleted digital images, and restores them onto the same or different media. Thanks to the new recovery method, Magic Photo Recovery can recover digital pictures that no other program can even see! The recovery algorithm featured in Magic Photo Recovery 2.0 carefully analyzes the file system, the disk and the recoverable images in order to determine the original names and locations of files being recovered.

Magic Photo Recovery is quick and easy to use. The convenient wizard guides you through the recovery process in a step-by-step manner. In fact, you can even recover your pictures by just clicking a single button! No prior experience with data recovery, and no special skills or outstanding technical abilities are needed. Just launch Magic Photo Recovery and see the magic!

Convenience features include a full-featured image browser and viewer, and the ability to filter recoverable images by their size, resolution or pixel dimensions.

Tired of empty promises? Tried of other recovery tools that only made things worse? Magic Photo Recovery features a complete full-size preview and a full-featured image browser that allows you to see the recoverable files before you make a purchase decision! Simply download the free evaluation version (http://www.magicuneraser.com/), and you will immediately realize the difference!


