Title: 
The Value of Data Media Security

Word Count:
273

Summary:
A basic locking cabinet can secure valuable papers or personal items but it will not protect them from theft or fire damage. Only safes can provide a superior level of protection for documents, jewelry, guns and personal items. Computer data that would be difficult or impossible to duplicate if lost.


Keywords:
home business office wholesale locks centurion remodeling crime family wallvaults safes safety safe security sentry vaults wallsafes computers laptops data media fire gun storage


Article Body:
A basic locking cabinet can secure valuable papers or personal items but it will not protect them from theft or fire damage. Only safes can provide a superior level of protection for documents, jewelry, guns and personal items. computer data that would be difficult or impossible to duplicate if lost. 

While paper records secured within a fire-rated safe can withstand temperatures up to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, computer media is damaged beyond use by temperatures above 125 degrees and 80% humidity. Microfiche film, tapes, diskettes, CDs, DVDs and computer media require the added protection of a data media safe. 

Data Media Safes are specifically designed for data media storage. Protect against fire and climactic changes--a requirement for a small business or home office. A data media safe must keep the internal temperature below 125º and the humidity level below 85%. Several fire testing laboratories have tested our safes at a temperature of 1,832 degrees F for over one hour with internal temperatures remaining below 122 degrees F. The safes were awarded the one-hour label. In addition, the safes are manufactured under ISO 9002 quality standard requirements. 

Fire could destroy your business! In fact, eight businesses burn almost every hour in the U.S. resulting in over 2.3 billion dollars in annual losses.* Unfortunately, seven out of ten businesses have not adequately protected their vital records. When that information is destroyed a business often fails. Don't become a company that incurs fire damage resulting in critical loss of data (customer, personnel, accounting files, etc.) by not utilizing quality fire and data media safes. Survival is possible but preparation is necessary. 

To view our inventory of Data Media Safes visit http://www.datamediasafes.com


