Title: 
ZIP repair software tool

Word Count:
278

Summary:
Fix WinZIP archives tool. Helps recover data from damaged *.zip files and self extracted archives.


Keywords:
zip repair, zip file repair, repair zip file, repair zip, zip fix, repair zip files, fix zip, fix zip file, zip file recovery, zip file recovery


Article Body:
Recovery Toolbox for Zip was developed to fix corrupted archives in Zip format. File compression is very popular, it is used, when forwarding large files to other PC's, it permits to reduce traffic and download time. As against other applications for Zip recovery, Recovery Toolbox for Zip uses multiple data recovery algorithms during its work. In addition, Recovery Toolbox for Zip uses data integrity check, it guarantees, that the data is repaired correctly and our customers will not face a data deformation problem. This approach of fix zip file ensures better results of repair zip, zip fix and more efficient operation.

Now, our potential customers have a great possibility to try this program before purchase. Do not lose this chance and get it for free, demo version of Recovery Toolbox for Zip can be downloaded here: http://www.recoverytoolbox.com/download/RecoveryToolboxForZipInstall.exe. Do not think, that the process of zip file repair and repair zip file is too complicated, it is divided into several easy steps, that can be performed intuitively, without reading user's manual. Recovery Toolbox for Zip is compatible with Windows 98, Windows Me, Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows XP SP2, Windows 2003 and Windows Vista. Recovery Toolbox for Zip can be also applied to open password-protected archives, but this tool for zip repair cannot crack your password. Please enter the password, when you will be asked about it and Recovery Toolbox for Zip will open the file and continue the process of fix zip and zip file recovery. Please drop us a note, if you'd like to learn more about the process of zip file recovery or you need an advice about repair zip files.


