Title: 
CCNA / MCSE / CCNP Certification:  Making Failure Work For You

Word Count:
319

Summary:
Failing an exam isn't the end of the world. It's happened to all of us, and you can make this failure work for you. Learn how from Chris Bryant, CCIE #12933.


Keywords:
ccna, cisco, certification, exam, fail, mcse, ccnp, icnd, intro, pass, free, tutorial, chris, bryant


Article Body:
Whether you're on the road to the CCNA, CCNP, MCSE, or you're on any other computer certification track, the odds are that sooner or later, you're going to fail an exam.  It's happened to almost all of us, yours truly included.   What you have to keep in mind in these times is that success is not a straight line.  You've probably seen charts showing the growth of an industry or a business -- you know, the ones that go from left to right, and look kind of jagged.  The line goes up for a while, then down a bit, then up some more, then down a little.  

The key?  While every business has its setbacks, the net result is that the line goes up and progress is made.  That's how you want your certification pursuit and your career to go as well - upward!

I'm not asking you to be happy about failing an exam.  You're allowed to get mad for a few minutes, vow to never take another exam again, and be disappointed.  What you're not allowed to do is stay that way.  

If you put your books away in a fit of anger, get them out.  If you took some time off, it's time to get back to work.  Again, there's nothing wrong with being unhappy about failing an exam.  It's how you handle that failure that counts.  No inventor, executive, or entrepreneur has ever been right 100% of the time.  Learn something from your failure.   Was your study time quality study time?  Did you get some hands-on practice with the technology you're studying?  Asking yourself these questions can be tough, but it can be highly valuable in making sure you don't fail the next time.  And there must be a next time - because the one thing you cannot do is quit.

Besides, take it from someone who's been there - your temporary failure makes your eventual success that much sweeter.


