Title: 
Cisco Certification:  CCNA Certifcation FAQ

Word Count:
383

Summary:
Chris Bryant, CCIE #12933, answers several common questions CCNA candidates have.


Keywords:
ccna, ccnp, free, pass, exam, cisco, certification, computer, mcse, ccie, chris, bryant


Article Body:
When you start your CCNA studies, a lot of questions come to mind!  Here are the five most common questions CCNA candidates have, answered by Chris Bryant, CCIE #12933.

Q. What exams do I have to take to get my CCNA?

A. The CCNA (Cisco Certified Network Associate) certification offers two paths. You can take the one-exam path by taking the 640-801 CCNA Composite exam. If you want to break it up into two parts, you can take the Introduction To Cisco Networking Technologies (INTRO 640-821) and the Interconnecting Cisco Networking Devcies (ICND 640-811) exams.

Q. Chris, which path do you recommend?

A. I generally recommend the two-exam path, particularly for those CCNA candidates that haven't taken a Cisco exam before. The Intro exam offers you a little more time and allows you to become comfortable with the Cisco exam engine, particularly the simulator questions. Let's face it, the CCNA single exam covers a lot of material, from basic networking to OSPF to router on a stick. Most candidates are better off breaking this huge amount of material into two distinct parts.

Don't get me wrong, I've had plenty of students and customers pass the CCNA composite. It can be done!

Q. Do I have to recertify my CCNA, or is it mine forever after I pass?

A. One way Cisco protects the value of its certifications is to enforce strict recertification policies. When you earn your CCNA, you must recertify within three years. 

Q. How do I recertify my CCNA? 

A. There is a lot of confusion out there on this question. The latest information from Cisco is that you recertify your CCNA by doing any of the following three things:

1. Pass the current CCNA Composite or ICND exam.

2. Pass any 642-level professional level exam or any Cisco Qualified Specialist exam, not including Sales Specialist exams.

3. Pass any CCIE written exam. 

Q. How do I register for the CCNA exam?

A. You can take the CCNA exam at any Prometric or VUE testing center. To find a Prometric testing center near you and register online, visit www.2test.com . For a VUE site, register at www.vue.com .

Q. Can you give me a braindump for the exam?

A. Boy, do you have the wrong guy!  :)

To your success,

Chris Bryant

CCIE #12933


