Title: 
Cisco CCNA / CCNP Certification Exam:  Attending A Video Boot Camp

Word Count:
342

Summary:
Not every CCNA and CCNP candidate has thousands of dollars to spend on a boot camp.  Learn how to get the same quality training for less money and travel from Chris Bryant, CCIE #12933.


Keywords:
Ccna, boot, camp, cbt, video, pass, exam, certification, ccnp, bsci, icnd, intro, Bryant, advantage, chris, travel, expensive, money, why, cost, so, much


Article Body:
When you're studying for the CCNA and CCNP exams, you've got a lot of different choices when it comes to training.   One popular choice is choosing one of the many "boot camps" and five-day in-person courses that are out there.  I've taught quite a few of these, and while many of them are good, they do have drawbacks.  

Of course, one is cost.  Many employers are putting the brakes on paying for CCNA and CCNP boot camps, and most candidates can't afford to pay thousands of dollars for such a class.  Then you've got travel costs, meals, and having to possibly burn your own vacation time to take the class.  Add in time away from your family and boot camps become impractical for many CCNA / CCNP candidates.  

Another issue is fatigue.  I enjoy teaching week-long classes, but let's face facts - whether you're training for the CCNA or CCNP exams, you're going to get a lot of information thrown at you in just a few days.  You're going to be mentally and physically exhausted at the end of the week, and that's when some boot camps actually have you take the exam!  You've got to be refreshed and rested when you take the exam to have your best chance of success.

How can you get the benefit of an experienced instructor without paying thousands of dollars?  By taking a Video Boot Camp!  There are some high-quality computer-based training (CBT) courses out there, and these courses offer quite a few advantages for the CCNA and CCNP candidate.  These courses run hundreds instead of thousands of dollars, and you can train on your own schedule. It is important for you to make and keep that schedule, but instead of spending thousands of dollars and having to travel, you can get world-class CCNA and CCNP training in the comfort of your own home.

By combining a high-quality CCNA or CCNP CBT or video boot camp with a strong work ethic, you're on your way to passing the exam and accelerating your career.  Now get to work!


