Title: 
Introduction to Thomson NETg

Word Count:
403

Summary:
Thomson NETg is one of a kind global learning Enterprise offering live online classrooms and a wide range of Integrated Learning solutions. Their learning offer includes high-quality instructional content, cutting-edge enabling technologies with multiple delivery options, and a full range of expert consulting services.


Keywords:
NETg Training, IT training


Article Body:
Thomson NETg is one of a kind global learning Enterprise offering live online classrooms and a wide range of Integrated Learning solutions. Their learning offer includes high-quality instructional content, cutting-edge enabling technologies with multiple delivery options, and a full range of expert consulting services. 

NETg has been around for 35 years, as a leader in learning and professional development partner of choice for innovating organizations worldwide. Their Integrated Learning solutions are designed to help other companies to unlock the potential of people in their organizations to achieve the results each company needs.

The history of Thomson NETg dates back to 1971 when the company introduced mainframe computer-based training, and by the year 2005 NETg acquired KnowledgeNet, a company leader in live and mobile learning, offering the first viable alternative to classroom-based training.

Nowadays, thousands of government agencies and leading companies all over the world rely on NETg when it comes to achieving performance improvements and important business productivity. 

Such companies include a large number of industries including telecommunications, manufacturing, health care, pharmaceuticals, retailers, financial services, human services and even military operations.  

NETg training area maintains two separate online catalogs, their own NETg Learning Catalog and the following KnowledgeNet catalog after its acquisition:

Technology Skills, including Cisco Technologies:, Microsoft Technologies, CompTIA, Citrix, (ISC)², Oracle Database Administration, Java Programming, Sun Microsystems Solaris, Lotus Notes Technica, UNIX, and Web Development. 			

Productivity Skills including Microsoft Office 2003, Microsoft Office XP (2002), Microsoft Office 2000, Client Operating Systems, Introduction to Technology, Lotus Notes, Siebel and Web Browsers. 

Project Management with the following areas: Project Management Skills, Project Management Institute.

Business and Professional Development including Management and Leadership, Communication Skills, Project Management Skills, Personal Development, Sales, Service and Marketing, HR/New Employee Orientation.

NETg training catalog includes diverse e-Learning courses such as Certification, Information Technology (IT), Desktop, Business and Professional Development, Specialty, Continuing Professional Education and Accreditation Programs offered in US English, besides other in 12 languages: German, French, Spanish, Dutch, Italian, Portuguese, Hungarian, Korean, UK English, Japanese, Turkish and Chinese.

For those interested in development and IT careers, Thomson NETg offers a number of courses in Cisco (39), CIW (70), Client Server (6), CompTIA (50), Database Concepts and Technologies (3), e-Business (15), IBM (85), Internet Technologies (80), IT Management (6), Lotus (33), Microsoft (356), Networking and Communications (41), Novell (50), Oracle (311), Programming (33), Reporting and Analysis (6), SAP (4), UNIX and Linux (23),  Web Development (7).

Additionally, Thomson NETg provides Live Now, a virtual classroom to get Cisco, Microsoft & Project Management Certification Classes to help IT and project managers to obtain professional certifications.


