Title: 
5 Ways to Increase Targeted Visitors...That Work!

Word Count:
650

Summary:
I have talked to a number marketers on the Internet and by far the biggest reason most of them haven't made money is because they don't bring enough  targeted visitors to their websites.


Keywords:
online marketing,writing,work at home


Article Body:
I have talked to a number marketers on the Internet and by far the biggest reason most of them haven't made money is because they don't bring enough  targeted visitors to their websites. I am not saying they don't know how to bring target visitors to their site, because I am sure many of them do. What I am saying is that most marketers are not willing to put in the effort it takes to drive massive amounts of traffic to their sites.

No one likes to admit it, but let's face it most of us are lazy, we are always looking for an easier way to do things. There is nothing wrong with that, but there are some things that just have to be done a certain way and there just isn't a short cut.  When it comes to targeted traffic we have all looked for an easier way. I tried auto traffic exchanges, it doesn't get much easier than that. Would you like to guess how many products I sold using auto traffic exchanges. Don't waste your time guessing I have never sold a product using auto traffic exchanges and don't remember ever selling a product using manual traffic exchanges for that matter. I am not against using traffic exchanges they have their place, but selling products is not one of them.

You are probably thinking when is he going to get to the 5 ways to increase targeted visitors. I am getting there, but you need to understand the 5 ways are important, but the reason you are not making money is not because you don't know the 5 ways to bring targeted traffic to your site, the reason you are not making money is because you don't believe they work. You may have tried a few of the ways to get targeted traffic, but never put in a lot of effort or did it the way you wanted to do it because doing it the way you were told to do it would just take too long. The people that will make money after reading this article are the people that have a burning desire to make it no matter what the cost, and no matter how much time it takes. The people that came to the Internet looking for an easier way to make money than going to a dead end job will have to wake up and realize that making money on the Internet is not a lot easier than going to that job. Those that accept that and stop looking for the easy way to make money will benefit from this article.

5 Ways to Increase Target Visitors

1. Writing Articles

2. Search Engine Traffic

3.Posting In Forums

4. List Building

5.Viral Marketing

An article is restricted to a certain number of words so I can not tell you exactly how to use the 5 ways to increase targeted visitors, but you can find that information at any marketing forum for free, one I use a lot is The Warrior Forum. I hope you noticed that most of the 5 ways to get targeted traffic involve writing, most people have trouble writing, I have trouble with it, that is what this article is about, just buckle down and do it no matter how hard it is. Don't be like some people and write an article and say to yourself, it took so long to write this article I will just submit it to 10 article directories. You need to submit that article until your fingers can't type any more, if you will do that it can get easier, because then you will be making some money that you can use to have ghost writers write articles for you.

Good Luck!

About The Author

Clint Pollard has been marketing on the Internet for nine years.

If you have trouble writing, but need massive amounts of traffic to your site, visit http://easywriting.ncave.com


