Title: 
6 Reasons WHY John Reese's VRE(Virtual Real Estate) Concept Is The Way To Go In 2006

Word Count:
997

Summary:
This article explains John Reese's VRE(Virtual Real Estate) concept and 6 reasons why you should consider it in 2006.


Keywords:
online business,niche content sites,virtual real estate,online business strategy,


Article Body:
Who would of ever guessed that Virtual Real Estate on the Internet would one day make many netpreneurers thousands, if not, millions of dollars.

I know I sure didn't when I first got started online, but am glad I ran across the concept while searching the web one night.

The facts are true and John Reese who is an Internet pioneer and the author of one of the Internets most powerful home study courses called "Traffic Secrets" is just one of those individuals who is successfully profiting from his Virtual Real Estate empire as we speak.

John Reese has been around since the being when the Internet first became a commercial entity and knows what works and what doesn't online simply because he is known as a Test Freak(I mean that in a good way John).

If you want to read up more on John Reese go to ==>
http://www.internetwondersezine.com/traffic-secrets.html

Now, some of you might be wondering what Virtual Real Estate is so I'll give you a quick definition:

Virtual Real Estate is simply a Information Packed website with hundreds, if not, thousands of webpages full of targeted information.

That's all they are. It doesn't have to get any more complicated then that.

I'll also give you some examples of VRE sites towards the end of this article.

Now that you know what Virtual Real Estate is, what there main purpose is and who is successfully doing it right now, lets dive into the -- "6 Reasons WHY John Reese's VRE (Virtual Real Estate) Concept Is The Way To Go In 2006".


Reason #1. People come online for Information.

One of the main reasons WHY people come online is to search for Information that's either related to a problem they're facing or for some consumer reviews on a particular product or service they're thinking about purchasing.

People rarely come online with the intent to buy something. Most of the time it's for Information.

How do you think the Internet got the nickname - The Information Super-Highway.


Reason #2. VRE sites can target any Niche.

This is the true beauty of VRE sites simply because they can target ANY niche on the planet, it doesn't matter.

They can be about Pets, Sports, Business, Family, Hobbies, and the list goes on and on.

I think you get the picture.


Reason #3. Us other peoples content.

The real cool thing about VRE sites is you don't have to produce ANY of your own content if you don't want to.

There are literally hundreds of places on the web where you can get and use other peoples work to build your VRE empire, and more importantly, they're more then happy to give it to you.


Reason #4. Google will pay you if you want.

Want to make some $CASH$ at the same time?

Good, because Google will happily pay you for adding a little piece of code to your webpages by signing up for their Google Adsense program, and depending on what market your targeting, they could pay you some handsome commissions every month and all that is required to get paid is for someone to click on one of the Googles ads.

And again, all this can be achieved without you writing a single word.

Pretty COOL!!


Reason #5. Add targeted affiliate programs for more $CASH$.

Want to make even more money with your VRE sites?

Depending on what market your targeting like in Reason #4, you can also add others peoples affiliate programs that are targeted towards the content within your VRE site that usually pay between 35% to 75% on every sale made.

If you've been online for any length of time then you know that content is an excellent way to Pre-Sell to your potential customer, so you've already gotten your foot in the door to possibably make a potential sale.

There are many places online that offer affiliate programs. Simply type in - affiliate directories - into any search engine and they will display all the results for you.


Reason #6. Unlimited FREE Traffic to your VRE sites.

The more your VRE site or sites grow, the more FREE targeted traffic you'll get.

Your probably asking, "where the heck does this FREE traffic come from?"

I'll tell you where it comes from. It comes from search engines like Google, MSN, Yahoo!, just to name a few.

Content is "Search Engine Food". And search engines love content, so in order for them to be continually fed the search engines send out a little robots called "Spiders" which crawl the web continuously looking for NEW webpages to index into their database.

So, the more content that is added to your VRE site or sites, the more often these little "Spiders" will stop by to give your VRE site a crawl and index any new content you've added.

Point being, the more optimized webpages your VRE site or sites have that get index, the more FREE search engine traffic you'll receive.


Do you see NOW how Powerful VRE sites are and why you should consider building a network of these that target different niches?

All your doing is giving your potential customer what they want which is Information and at the same time offering them a solution by adding Google Adsense ads and targeted affiliate programs, which is where you get paid for your efforts.

And remember, you don't even have to write a single word if you don't want to, and you still get paid!

John Reese really hit a home run with this concept I have to say which is way he encourages all to start building and growing them in 2006.

Now as I mentioned at the beginning that I would give you some examples of what a VRE site might be so here are a few examples for you to get started with: Article Directories, Review Sites, Directories, Mini Sites and Niche Blogs.

Well, that's it. Now it's up to you to get your creative juices flowing and start building your network of profitable VRE sites.


