Title: 
A Click On Your Profits

Word Count:
431

Summary:
Pay-per-click advertising is a very economical compared to other advertising tools on the Internet. You pay only when a visitor clicks on your ad and goes to either your web site or to the website of which you are an affiliate of. The advantage of pay per click advertising is that you do not need a website, and this is an ideal way for home business beginners to earn money on a low budget.
]
The main advantage of Pay per click adverting is that you only pay for actual click...


Keywords:
Pay per click programs,


Article Body:
Pay-per-click advertising is a very economical compared to other advertising tools on the Internet. You pay only when a visitor clicks on your ad and goes to either your web site or to the website of which you are an affiliate of. The advantage of pay per click advertising is that you do not need a website, and this is an ideal way for home business beginners to earn money on a low budget.
]
The main advantage of Pay per click adverting is that you only pay for actual clicks on your ads. Pay per click internet advertising lists your ads according to your bids on your keywords. Of course, ads which pay more are ranked higher.

Google Adwords and Yahoo Search Marketing are the two most popular Pay per Click programs on the net.

Another advantage of Pay per Click programs is that you can constantly monitor the progress of your ads, edit your keywords, change the bids on your keywords, Change the Daily Budget (You can set a daily budget for your ads. After your daily budget gets exhausted, your ads stop running. on that day) This can be done anytime and any number of times. If you find your ads are not working for you , you can pause the ad or simply delete it.

Before you actually launch on a pay per click advertising, make sure to check out your competition. It will give you a good idea as to how to structure your ad. Also make out a list of keywords with which you want to link your product. A useful tip is to try out Wordtracker’s trial package to get the necessary keywords. You can also get the KEI (Keyword Effectiveness Index) here which will allow you to determine the niche keyword and not get lost in a sea of keywords. This is a very effective tool to determine the competition of the keywords and gives you a good idea as to which keywords to bid for to get targeted audience to click your ads at an economical price.

The Pay per Click advertising allows you to test market your future campaigns. If you intend to launch a full fledged website , Pay per Click advertising allows you to test the waters. You can analyse your keywords and find out which works for you best You can also test viability of the products for which you are an affiliate of.

Pay per Click advertising not only helps you in earning money but can also be a very effective marketing and information tool for your future businesses.


