Title: 
A Hot Trend For 2006 - Internet TV

Word Count:
365

Summary:
The term Internet TV may refer to either of two things. Internet TV may refer to a set top box that allows users to view Internet content on their television. Alternatively it may refer to television shows and channels that are broadcast over the Internet allowing you to watch your favorite television channels or new channels that you wouldn’t ordinarily receive through your terrestrial television channels.

Internet TV is still a modern technology and, as such, there are r...


Keywords:
internet tv, computer tv


Article Body:
The term Internet TV may refer to either of two things. Internet TV may refer to a set top box that allows users to view Internet content on their television. Alternatively it may refer to television shows and channels that are broadcast over the Internet allowing you to watch your favorite television channels or new channels that you wouldn’t ordinarily receive through your terrestrial television channels.

Internet TV is still a modern technology and, as such, there are regular improvements being made that enable easier access, greater quality footage and other features. It’s possible to find most of your favorite television and satellite channels on the Internet that transmit simultaneously on the Internet. It is quite easy to find access to these stations for free and completely legally. Alternatively, there are also new stations that aren’t available except on the Internet or new content provided by existing television stations. The use of internet TV broadens the entertainment capability by giving the viewers more channels equipped with more of the shows that people really want. 

You will need high speed Internet access and a reasonable computer to ensure that you receive a good quality of footage. However, apart from this you do not need any more equipment. Previous problems have been that the cost and the difficulty of setting up an Internet TV station have made it unfeasible to do so. However, the technology required for video streaming has become more easily accessible and more affordable. As more and more people become aware of internet TV the funds being appropriated to the concept are increasing making it even easier for small TV stations to set up online and provide high quality television online. 

One emerging method to help Internet users access and watch Internet television is a peer-to-peer network. P2P streaming enables users from all over the world to share image files with one another, including live TV action. The more people who share a particular channel, the better the quality usually is. P2P streaming looks set to present excellent options for the future if any new developments are not introduced first that will take away the need for P2P.


