Title: 
A Quick Look At Free Spyware

Word Count:
317

Summary:
When it comes to removing spyware from your computer there are various options open to you and these include installing a spyware blocker, spyware cleaner, and spyware detection software. There are a wide range of products available for consumers and this article will focus on the free spyware that is available and the things you should be aware of when choosing free spyware.

Free Spyware Programs

There are a number of free spyware programs available and a brief interne...


Keywords:
free spyware, removing spyware, spyware blocker, spyware cleaner, spyware detection, spyware removal


Article Body:
When it comes to removing spyware from your computer there are various options open to you and these include installing a spyware blocker, spyware cleaner, and spyware detection software. There are a wide range of products available for consumers and this article will focus on the free spyware that is available and the things you should be aware of when choosing free spyware.

Free Spyware Programs

There are a number of free spyware programs available and a brief internet search will bring you up a list of them. These programs can be downloaded and installed on your computer and will give you protection against unwanted spyware.

SpywareBlaster is a free spyware detection software program that prevents spyware activeX controls from being installed on your computer. This spyware blocker also blocks cookies from websites that are known to track you internet habits. This is a free spyware program that can be downloaded and installed on your computer. Although free this spyware cleaner does have a number of advantages including the blocking of activeX.

SpywareGuard is another free spyware program that is available. This spyware blocker runs in the background and prevents spyware from being downloaded onto your computer. This free spyware program also has the ability to prevent your computer from being hijacked whilst you are browsing the internet which is a necessity if you have a dial up internet connection.

Whilst free spyware programs are available it is always wise to do a comparison of the features available with paid spyware removal software. Some free spyware removal software will only allow you to scan your computer for spyware and will give you a large list of spyware found. These free spyware programs will not however, allow you to remove this spyware from your computer until you actually purchase the spyware removal software. This is something that you should be aware of when looking a free spyware programs.


