Title: 
A Search Engine that PAYS YOU to make a Search?

Word Count:
632

Summary:
No, I am NOT talking about Google’s Adsense! As good as that is, it requires other people to “click” on the advertisements on your web site. This is a new Search Engine that will pay you, every time YOU make a Search using your very own Search Engine Portal. Plus they will also pay you every time someone else searches on your Search Portal. If you are involved in anyway with Marketing, I am sure that you can begin to imagine just how this could grow.


Keywords:
search, marketing, search engines, ppc search, new search engine, search engine, ppc, online marketing


Article Body:
As editor of a large Article Directory, that currently has over 20,000 Articles, we receive hundreds of new  ideas that arrive daily….but in this past week I have received two new articles, that have both made me sit up and take notice. This is the first of those, the other I will leave for a second article.

Every day many millions of searches are performed, admittedly over 80% of those searches are currently made by internet users that go through either Google, MSN or Yahoo, but then like this new Search Engine, they too had to start somewhere. After all it was only a few years ago that Google started, now look at how big they are. 

This is how the new Search Engine works:

You have your own Search Portal, in the same way that you would Search though any of the big three. Although instead of using say Google, you Search via your own personal Search Portal. The results that they supply, are both quick, and also very good, and supplied in the same way that they would be with any other Search Engine, but here is the difference! 

1/. They will give you $50 just for joining, no catch, your account is credit as soon as you join up with them.

2/. You then get the personal link to your very own Search Portal when you join, which you then use whenever you want to make a Search of the internet.

3/. They CREDIT your account every time you make a Search, using your own Search Portal.

Now the potential!

The Search Portal link is specific to YOU, so the idea is for you to get your friends, and maybe even business colleagues to also use YOUR Search Portal, after all it will cost them nothing, and they will get good results. The more people you can get to use your Search Portal the better….BECAUSE every time that it is used to make a Search by anyone using YOUR Search Engine Portal link, the Search company pays YOU!!

It progresses even further, it is completely Free to you, and you get the $50 sign up bonus mentioned above, but if your friends also sign up, they get the $50 bonus too, as do their friends, and their friend’s friends!

So there must be a catch?
I have NOT found one, and I have looked at it VERY closely. In fact I think it is a great idea, I have actually tried it, and as promised my account credit increased as they said it would. I believe that it is a very novel idea and one that could really take off. It is totally free to use, it does not cost the users anything, and so as far as I can see it really is a win win situation.

The Search Engine I am talking about, is also a Pay Per Click Search Engine, so they DO want you to use the money you earn to buy Pay Per Click listings, but then if you have your own website, and you are accumulating money for Free just by making Searches, then it also means that you are getting your “clicks” for Free too. They also have paid Membership, which I understand allows you to take the money you earn in the form of Cash Commissions, paid twice monthly via PayPal.

From my point of view, it looks like a new way of getting free traffic to my website.

So finally if you do have a web site, or maybe plan to have one in the future, would like to promote it for Free, then this is something that you should really take a look at.
After all they could be the internet’s next big player, and you are getting in on the ground floor!


