Title: 
Addressing Emotions: Live Chat And Customers

Word Count:
519

Summary:
When people buy things, the decision to actually purchase is a combination of logic and desire. That latter half of the buying process is clinched and what the web seems to lacking – some heart.

If you leave a visitor on his own to buy from your site, what would encourage him to make the actual purchase? How do you nudge the ones who have doubts?

Searches are not enough.

If there is someone to answer questions, rather than referring to a list of FAQs, a prospect is m...


Keywords:
windows, windows vista, microsoft, business, internet


Article Body:
When people buy things, the decision to actually purchase is a combination of logic and desire. That latter half of the buying process is clinched and what the web seems to lacking – some heart.

If you leave a visitor on his own to buy from your site, what would encourage him to make the actual purchase? How do you nudge the ones who have doubts?

Searches are not enough.

If there is someone to answer questions, rather than referring to a list of FAQs, a prospect is more easily converted into a customer.

On a web-based store, this can be made possible with the technology of live chats. When a visitor has established a history in his visit (length of stay, depth of search, number of visits, etc.), you can already see the interest. An online sales agent can then pop up a dialogue box asking what he can do to help. Better than a search box, he can guide the visitor into buying something, or help that person find something suitable.

That special treatment.

Many, if not all buyers, want to be treated as valued customers. That personal touch of having someone know what you want, is an edge that pushes sales further, even generate repeat sales.

Post-sales support is also enhanced by this personalization. A dissatisfied customer is not likely to come back for any more dissatisfaction. If there is a person who can answer a challenge, or respond to a query in a way that is suited for that customer, you will have some happy people coming back for more.

Some tips.

It isn’t all that easy though. In a live chat, your agents must be careful. There is still the danger of breaking the deal. Here are some tips that can help make the chat more positive, if not a success:

1. Be courteous. Do this especially if the visitor is aloof or rude. A canned intro helps. This should bear your company tone and stance.

2. Avoid making your customers repeat themselves. Have your agents read the profiles and histories of your customers before they engage in the chat.

3. Let your agents personalize after the intro. All calls are unique. Cases vary among customers and so do the responses to them. Make sure your agents are well-equipped with the knowledge and training that will not only give a satisfactory answer, but also actually respond to the situation at hand. On the other hand, if you are wary about this much latitude among your agents, have a group think of every possible scenario in creating the canned responses, though that can prove to be a lengthy and drawn-out process.

4. Keep all records of all chats in the history. If possible, create a summary of the chat session to go with the file to save time for people reviewing it. This will help you create a more precise profile of your customers.

Surely, there are more things you should bear in mind, but these will do for a start. The more you use this technology, the more you’ll learn on how to make it more effective.


