Title: 
Adsense Web Tool: Increasing Your Adsense Revenues Starting Today!

Word Count:
568

Summary:
There was an individual named Joel Comn who once making only $30 daily with Adsense, a program where it allows you to make money when visitors of your site are clicking on the advertising links that are placed in the host’s website. Until one day, he decides to have a try of other ways of increasing his Adsense earning.

After he had used several Adsense tools, Joel doubled his commission from $30 to $60 daily. But would you believe that his commission actually sky-rocketed...


Keywords:



Article Body:
There was an individual named Joel Comn who once making only $30 daily with Adsense, a program where it allows you to make money when visitors of your site are clicking on the advertising links that are placed in the host’s website. Until one day, he decides to have a try of other ways of increasing his Adsense earning.

After he had used several Adsense tools, Joel doubled his commission from $30 to $60 daily. But would you believe that his commission actually sky-rocketed for more than $500 per day? His earnings climbed up, making it $18,343 last December 2004 and it is quite possibly that his revenues may keep climbing after that period. It sounds impossible, but an individual have done it.

Adsense Basics

Joel Comn is now one of the successful Internet marketers that derive some of their revenues through the Adsense program. But you need to keep in mind that you can not earn as much as $18,000 per month if you will just allow Adsense to place its ads on your website. There are things you need to consider in order to make as much money as Joel did.

You need to apply for an Adsense account. Remember that you must be investing in your own domain so that your application will not be rejected. Make sure that your site’s contents are organized and be viewed as professional.

After your site has been accepted, Adsense will give you a code that you will place on your website, enabling them to start placing ads on your site that are with relevance to its content. For instance, if your site is about air-conditioning, Adsense might place ads that deal with different kinds and models of air-conditioning equipment.

Adsense Web Tool

Part of Adsense program is the use of Adwords, or relevant words that is integrated with Adsense advertisement. In order to attract more visitors that are generating impressions or “clicks” to the ads in your site, you must let Adsense know what Adwords are relevant and related to the contents of your webpage. In this case, the Adsense Web Tool can help you.

Adsense Web Tools provide you with Adsense HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language) ad code to place on the web pages which you want to display the ads. The Adwords that will be generated using the Web Tool are based on the keyword analysis, word frequency, and the overall link structure of the web. Adsense will have an idea what your webpage is all about, and it can precisely match the advertisement on each page.

Maybe you will wonder how Adsense know what appropriate Adwords needs to be displayed in your site. If Adsense has spidered your site, it automatically knows what Adwords are to be displayed in your site. However, if your site has not spidered yet, Adsense makes use of your site’s URL first to decide what Adwords are appropriate. This is where your own domain will be important. You must invest on your own domain. Keep in mind that it has a significant impact on your Adsense revenues.

It is important that you make use of Adsense Web Tool so that you can maximize your possible earnings with Adsense. Do not rely alone on the displayed ads. Remember that you need to make it “clickable” to every Internet user that will visit your site. Start right and earn as much as $18,000 a month through Adsense!


