Title: 
Advantages Of cPanel Hosting

Word Count:
448

Summary:
Cpanel or popularly known as hosting control panel system is the next generation web hosting system which is currently heading the list. Cpanel is a cheap hosting control panel for linux webhosts and managed dedicated servers. With its embarking into the World Wide Web, it has lent the power to accurately monitor your website. It means you can make changes according to your own liking and taste, not withstanding the requirements. It is the proven stability, easy to use featur...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Cpanel or popularly known as hosting control panel system is the next generation web hosting system which is currently heading the list. Cpanel is a cheap hosting control panel for linux webhosts and managed dedicated servers. With its embarking into the World Wide Web, it has lent the power to accurately monitor your website. It means you can make changes according to your own liking and taste, not withstanding the requirements. It is the proven stability, easy to use feature; security and exceptional functionality which has made this hosting servicereally count its worth. Furthermore, you also get the advantage of friendly web based interface, adding up of parked domains, reading webmail, monitoring the bandwidth usage, addition of email accounts, moreover, you are also able to view your visitor statistics, and still many more to mention. The list of features is endless. In short a complete package one can ever dream off.

Herein you are in the total control of your website as you get access to your very own Cpanel with every Cpanel hosting account. Thus, it truly makes a lot of sense in managing your own website without any hassle. The core idea of this cpanel hosting is that it allows you to manage your domain through a web interface. There is also a feature whereby the transfer of the control and responsibility of managing your web site is made to you and you get to become the sole controller. It is the most advantageous web hosting serviceas you get to manage all aspects of e-mail, backup, files, CGI scripts and FTP. Not only this, cpanel hosting also allow you to take the entire backup of your website, managing cron jobs, protecting web directories, configuring http redirects and custom error pages also configure spam filters, accompanied with the viewing of disk space and allowing you to set up a shopping cart. What more, they all are available on a touch button system. It’s an enhanced servicewhich makes you control your website on your terms teemed with an array of features.

Cpanel also has an add on named as Fantastico through which you can install lot of ready to use free scripts at few clicks of your mouse.

This web-based control panel is comprehensively designed in a three-tier structure which makes web hosting quick and pretty simple. Using cpanel hosting; you will no longer need to go through hundreds of Linux-based commands just to be the admin of your server. It is loaded with every tool you need and now you can stay focused and pay more to your business instead of the server administration.

The official site of cPanel control panel is http://www.cpanel.net


