Title: 
Advertising Through Email

Word Count:
356

Summary:
During a email campaign address to your clients, members or mailing list subscribers it is also necessary to monitor it and know when your emails are actually read.


Keywords:
advertising, email campaign, email advertising


Article Body:
During a email campaign address to your clients, members or mailing list subscribers it is also necessary to monitor it and know when your emails are actually read. 
The "Email Marketing Use and Trends Report: H1 2004" created upon the information collected from the MailerMailer's 70 million clients, proved the following : 

1. Email checking
The same day you send the email - This is when most of your targeted audience ( 80% ) will receive and read your email. 95% of your target audience will receive and read your email after 6 days of delivery.

2. Failed Email
Sending out a email can fail  : when one of your subscribers changed his/her's email address without letting you know, if the email is marked as spam or if the email server of one of your subscriber(s) is not responding or it's offline. 
A recent study proved that the failure rate when sending the first 5 emails to your subscribers is 6,6%, after you delete the invalid email addresses from your mailing list the failure rate when down to 3,9%.
Sending an email to goverment institutions will have a smaller failure rate ( 2,41% ), e-commerce companies ( 3,8%) and real estate agencies ( 4,19%).

3. Opening and viewing the email
It is already know and proved that sending an email to goverment institutions, telecommunication companies, ecommerce companies, real estate agencies, have the highest receving and reading rate. Most of them receive and read your email within the first 48 hours. 
Also, emails sent on Monday's have a bigger receving & reading rate compared to the other days of the week.

4. Link clicking
Emails containing links were accessed in a proportion of 4,27%. 


Even if a small number of emails are send during the weekend, the ones that were sent on Saturday( 5,11%) and the ones sent on Sunday(5,54%) were received and read often then thouse sent during the week. In the same time, emails with a personalized subject were opened and read by more people than thouse that just had personalized content or thouse that were not personalized at all. 

Be smart when sending out emails. Creating and maintaining a mailing list can be a very effective tool that you can use when running a web site or a online business.


