Title: 
Aim for the Moon, If you miss...

Word Count:
816

Summary:
A new idea can be either unfamiliar, or silly, or both. It can be judged by description, it needs to be done to exist. It’s unlikely that anyone will invest or sanction the cost of something they don’t understand, therefore you have no choice but to do it yourself. You have to find a way to get it done


Keywords:
internet marketing, building wealth, self-help, e-business, affiliate marketing, web design, internet business, success, home business


Article Body:
The saying goes like this "Aim for the moon, if you miss at least you will be among the stars!"

When it can’t be done – do it. If you don’t do it, it will not be done.

A new idea can be either unfamiliar, or silly, or both. It can be judged by description, it needs to be done to exist. It’s unlikely that anyone will invest or sanction the cost of something they don’t understand, therefore you have no choice but to do it yourself. You have to find a way to get it done

It’s exciting. It’s difficult and it’s fun. If it was easy anyone could do it. The film Citizen Kane is a very good example. It was stolen not sanctioned Orson Wells couldn’t find any financial backers, but he raised a small amount for casting. He begged, borrowed and milked people into building sets and shooting full –blown screen test which eventually formed a third of the film. Now it existed.

Backers could see what they were getting and he got the money. Without him doing it when it ‘couldn’t be done’ it would be another in the endless list of ideas that never happened. Myles Munroe says the wealthiest underground deposits are not the oil fields of Arabia or Alberta, not the Natural Gas deposits of the North Sea, it’s not even the diamond mines of South Africa – rather its cemeteries across the world. For in those graveyards are books that were never written, art never painted, songs never written, companies never started. In those tombs lies the greatest wealth potential – ideas.

You have them every day – what will you do with yours? What stops you from pursuing yours? Fear? Perhaps you are searching for an idea – well think outside the box. If you can’t think of anything that hasn’t been thought of already, then you need to start playing by the rules. 

The person who doesn’t make mistakes is unlikely to make anything. Benjamin Franklin said “I haven’t failed. I’ve had 10,000 ideas that didn’t work. Thomas Edison said  “Of the 200 light bulbs that didn’t work, every one of them told me something that I was able to incorporate into the next attempt. Theatre director Joan Littlewood said “If we don’t get lost, we’ll never find a new route.”

All of them understood that failures and false starts are a precondition of success. It takes a positive attitude to make mistakes well. Samuel Beckett said “Fail, Fail again, Fail better!”

It’s wrong to be right. 
Being right is based upon knowledge and experience and is often provable. Knowledge comes from the past and its safe. It is also out of date and the opposite of originality. 

Experience is found in solutions to old situations and problems. The old situations are probably different from the present ones, so that old solutions will have to be bent to fit a new problems) and possibly fit badly). Also, the likelihood is that if you’ve got the experience, you’ll use it. This is lazy.

Experience is the opposite of being creative. If you can prove you’re right, you are set in stone. You cannot move with the times or with other people. Being right is also boring and you mind is closed. You are not open to new ideas.

Star being wrong and suddenly anything is possible. You are no longer trying to be perfect. You are in the unknown, with no clue as to what will happen, but there’s more of chance of it being worthwhile than if you try to be right. 

Most people worry about suggesting stupid ideas because of what others will think. Yes, it’s a risky business – you can look silly. Risk is a measurement of a person. People who won’t take them are trying to preserve what they have. People who do take them often end up having more. 

Let’s dare to try new things, to aim high knowing that if we miss – its ok… we are closer to something new that has never been seen or heard of.  

You should take a look at Internet Marketing, Forex Trading and other crazy ideas that everyone will doubt and predict your failure in. But its ok to try and fail…  but what happens if you don’t fail? What would your life look like if you were not afraid of the new, of being wrong or failing once again?

Thanks for reading,
Your Rich Cousin
(Author and Business Success Story) Get the free e-book that got me started and helped me start making money at http://www.richcousin.com It's so straight forward and easy to understand AND you will have the support you need to start making a great income online.


