Title: 
All About Adwords And Adsense

Word Count:
457

Summary:
Everyone is scrambling for news about the new kids on the net – AdWords and AdSense that is. You’ve got to hand it to Google. They’ve really outdone themselves this time. 

AdWords is Google’s pay-per-click advertising program. AdWords is similar to other pay-per-click advertising programs, but the other side of the coin, AdSense, makes it an incredibly powerful advertising program. I’ll get to that in a moment, for now let’s take a look at AdWords and how it works. 

Wit...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Everyone is scrambling for news about the new kids on the net – AdWords and AdSense that is. You’ve got to hand it to Google. They’ve really outdone themselves this time. 

AdWords is Google’s pay-per-click advertising program. AdWords is similar to other pay-per-click advertising programs, but the other side of the coin, AdSense, makes it an incredibly powerful advertising program. I’ll get to that in a moment, for now let’s take a look at AdWords and how it works. 

With AdWords, you can create your very own advertisements or you can have Google’s team design the advertising campaign for you. When you create AdWords advertisements, they appear on the internet right away. You have complete control of your budget as you only pay when your ad is clicked on and you can set your very own daily limits for what you are willing to pay. There is no minimum budget or locked in time that you have to run your campaign. You choose the keywords you want to target, so you get targeted traffic from your ads – people who are looking for specifically what you have to offer. 

You can rely on Google for quick, friendly and knowledgeable support when you need it. Additionally, you can access performance reports that keep you informed on how well your advertising is doing so you can make changes as needed. 

I know all that sounds pretty similar to other pay-per-click programs, but now let’s take a look at the other side. 

AdSense… 

AdSense adds a powerful punch to the AdWords program as well as giving website operators the ability to make money from their websites by displaying Google Ads (those from the AdWords program). So, as an AdWords advertiser, you’ve got an advantage in that website operators are providing high quality content to browsers and because of the keywords, your ads appear on their websites in clear view of individuals who are looking for your products or services. 

As a website operator, you can choose keywords for the AdSense program that are relevant to the content you provide. The keywords will draw in relative advertisements to be displayed on your website, things that your browsers are interested in, which adds value to the information provided to your visitors. When your website visitors click on a Google Ad, you gain revenue from that click. Providing high quality, relative content is key to making money with AdSense. 

AdWords and AdSense are win-win propositions for advertisers and website operators. Advertisers get targeted traffic to their websites at minimal costs and website operators make money for having the ads displayed on their websites. AdWords and AdSense are welcomed additions to the world of e-business and internet marketing.


