Title: 
An Introduction To Drop Shipping - The Easy Way To Start An Ebay Business

Word Count:
585

Summary:
It is very easy to start a drop shipping business on eBay. You do not need to make any huge investments when starting your ebay drop shipping business and your initial costs will be negligible.


Keywords:
drop shipping,auction ebay online shopping,auction ebay site store


Article Body:
The term ‘Drop shipping’ has become a popular method for selling goods on eBay. This method allows the seller on eBay to sell goods without the need to have an inventory or the necessity to ship the goods. Many companies also allow the user to purchase their goods and then have them blind drop ship the product to the winning bidder. The company uses the eBay seller’s name or company details as the return address to make it appear that the item actually came from them and not the true goods supplier. The true supplier will however, handle the packaging, the shipping, and any return of items. 

It is very easy to start a drop shipping business on eBay. You do not need to make any huge investments when starting your ebay drop shipping business and your initial costs will be negligible.  Remember that this is a virtual business and does not need heavy startup costs, unlike an offline business that can expensive to start. 

Drop shipping has gained in popularity because you do not have to pay for and stock inventory the upfront. Once the buyer makes the payment, the order is sent to the drop shipper and they complete the procedure including sending the tracking number for the shipment, which is then forwarded to the buyer - You do not pay until you have sold the item! This method ensures that you earn money and the risks are minimized for the sellers. 

But make sure that you find legitimate drop shippers to work with and avoid the "middlemen" that can cause problems with shipping and your profits.  Stay clear of drop ship guides that just list companies and addresses.  These guides lack any substance and, if you want to find "middlemen" you will not need to look any further. A good source for finding your ideal drop ship partnership is at alibaba.com.

Ebay is the biggest e-commerce portal in the world today and is providing a livelihood to thousands of people worldwide. According to a survey by AC Nielsen in 2005, 724,000 Americans have confirmed that their livelihood depends on their auction ebay site store. Apart from this number, at least another 1.5 million people have said that they make an extra income by selling their products on e-bay. Last year 150 million registered users sold their products on eBay and transactions amounted to over $34 billion. This makes e-bay the biggest online market place globally.

You do not need any special skills for starting a drop shipping business on eBay and although there are certain products that you cannot sell on an auction ebay online shopping store, you can sell virtually anything else and don't forget that you will have an existing database of over 150 million customers to sell your product to. You will however, need to carefully assess the pros and cons to ensure success, read as much as you can on the subject and learn from those that know.  A good resource can be found here.

Ebay gets somewhere around 1.5 billion page reviews every month. You can imagine therefore the kind of traffic that can visit your auction ebay site store - just be sure to check out what is selling and what isn't before you start and just remember this, a little time and effort is all that will be required to get started and after that just sit back and watch the bidding.  Even while you are sleeping, on holiday or doing whatever else, ebay is still working for you, day and night.


