Title: 
Autosurf Investments To Avoid

Word Count:
337

Summary:
There you are many pubic Autosurf Investment opportunities available today. One simple search for “Autosurf” returns about 1 million results on Yahoo. Anyone could get started in these types of internet investments. 

The question is – “Would you want to?” 

With the ease at which budding HYIP “starters” can obtain scripts used by popular programs such as 12DailyPro, do you really want to invest your hard-earned cash with these people?

While reading various Autosurf re...


Keywords:
autosurf, investments, scams, autosurf scams, investment


Article Body:
There you are many pubic Autosurf Investment opportunities available today. One simple search for “Autosurf” returns about 1 million results on Yahoo. Anyone could get started in these types of internet investments. 

The question is – “Would you want to?” 

With the ease at which budding HYIP “starters” can obtain scripts used by popular programs such as 12DailyPro, do you really want to invest your hard-earned cash with these people?

While reading various Autosurf related forums, it became obvious that these programs were nothing more than elaborate pyramid schemes put together with “ready-to-go” scripts. To avoid any legal issues, they claim to “pay you for viewing ads” and that the “investment” you make is, in fact, not an investment but a “membership fee”. Administrators of these programs claim that they are able to sustain paying high returns (usually over 30% per month) because of money coming in from people wanting to purchase untargeted traffic at their Autosurf. Do you believe them? I certainly don’t.

In the month of December, I managed to track 18 Autosurf closures. The real figure was probably more than that because new Autosurfs seem to spring up every day and disappear the next. On the 31st of December 2005, 12 new Autosurfs have miraculously appeared out of nowhere. How many will last one week? Not a lot.

Internet investments can be profitable though. You just have to know where to invest. My advice to newcomers would be to avoid investing in public Autosurfs completely. It’s not worth surfing an hour each day, just to lose your money to some 10-year-old crook with a script. Sure, there may be some which last for a longer period of time, but sooner of later they will close. 

Instead, look for reliable private investments which have a great chance of surviving and have a constant stream of income. Private investments are usually have money coming in from trading on stock exchanges and buying small businesses. Although the returns may not be as great as promised by Autosurfs – they are much safer.


