Title: 
Avoid These Strategies, Keep Your Website Visitors Happy And Make Money

Word Count:
548

Summary:
It is no secret that the success of your Internet Marketing Business is to a great extent dependent on the traffic you get. For the Internet Marketer who 
wants to make money,the website visitor is a very welcome person and his visit is most anxiously awaited. When this is the real scenario imagine webmasters adopting strategies and creating situations knowingly or unknowingly,  forcing their website visitors to take a round about turn and flee from their websites. Why do th...


Keywords:
Website Visitors, visitors, websites, Make Money, Internet Marketing, Internet Marketer, Internet Ma


Article Body:
It is no secret that the success of your Internet Marketing Business is to a great extent dependent on the traffic you get. For the Internet Marketer who wants to make money,the website visitor is a very welcome person and his visit is most anxiously awaited. When this is the real scenario imagine webmasters adopting strategies and creating situations knowingly or unknowingly,  forcing their website visitors to take a round about turn and flee from their websites. Why do this, and lose your visitors?

The disappointment and frustration the visitors experience sometimes is such that they vow never to return to these sites again and an opportunity to make money is lost for ever.

Given below are specific situations that visitors encounter when surfing the internet hoping to find some useful information. 

1. Instruct your website visitors to register before entering your site without giving them any clue what your site is all about.

2. Have an Audio sound track on your home page and compel him to listen to your rhetoric without providing him any provision to turn it off.

3. Ensure that your website has graphics and multimedia and will take at least one minute to download. This will give your website visitor sufficient time to get frustrated, change his mind and go to another site.

4. Once your website visitor is in, confuse him without providing him with concise and clear labels to enable him to know his whereabouts and movements.
Also do not provide him opportunities to explore your site and go back to where he came from but entrap him in a mesh of web pages.

5. Keep changing frequently the location of features in your site making your regular Internet Marketing website visitors and customers confused and frustrated.

6. Do not update contents on your website. Have old or stale Internet Marketing contents without any indication of fresh content. Display today's date for old content giving a clear indication to the visitor that you are 
not only inactive but also dishonest.

7. Have plenty of Typos and grammar mistakes. Make it difficult to read both text wise and color wise, indicating to your website visitors that you are a person without substance, rather than looking professional.

8. Plaster your web page with Internet Marketing banners, advertisements and pop ups thus irritating your website visitors.

9. Do not check your website for broken links. Have plenty of broken links and error messages thus annoying your visitors. 
 
10. Finally as your website visitors are about to leave you site, serve an exit Ad. and ensure that they simply can't leave that Ad. or exit from your website. 

When a website visitor is confronted with this type of situation it is nothing but natural to expect him to be disappointed, disillusioned and frustrated. 
There are millions of websites in the internet. There is no reason why the visitor should hang around in a website that is not user friendly and helpful. He knows exactly what he should do in such a situation,-yes, quit the site.

To counter these problems and make money from your website visitors, correct your errors, update your website regularly and dump these strategies that satisfy your whims and fancies. Instead provide your Internet Marketing visitors a website that is simple, attractive and user friendly where he feels very much at home.


