Title: 
Be Informed When You Purchase A Computer

Word Count:
483

Summary:
When you go online or look at ads for electronics stores, you will probably be able to find a computer that will be just right for you. There are many types and styles available on the market. You can find a computer that will take up a whole room in your house, while you can also find a computer that will fit into the palm of your hand! At a business, you will probably find a mainframe computer. In your workplace or at home you will normally find a desktop computer. In the a...


Keywords:
computer,business,internet,software,hardware


Article Body:
When you go online or look at ads for electronics stores, you will probably be able to find a computer that will be just right for you. There are many types and styles available on the market. You can find a computer that will take up a whole room in your house, while you can also find a computer that will fit into the palm of your hand! At a business, you will probably find a mainframe computer. In your workplace or at home you will normally find a desktop computer. In the airport, the person sitting next to you could be working on a laptop computer or handheld computer. So, when you find yourself looking for a computer for your own personal use, you know you will have a lot to choose from.

When looking for a home computer, nowadays called a personal computer, you will find it is made up of several parts. There will be a box sitting on your desk, black, gray or beige in color. This is your actual computer, containing everything from the microprocessor to the memory, the storage to the input/output devices. You can’t work with just the “computer” alone, though. There are accessories that go along with your computer like the monitor, keyboard, mouse and speakers. Other attachments you might find are printers and digital video cameras.

If you want to buy a computer, it is good to know that there are two separate categories of computers: PCs and Macs.

- A PC is a computer modeled after components and standards created by the IBM Company. A rather high percentage of all personal computers, shown at somewhere over 90%, are PCs. Some companies that sell PC computers are IBM, Dell, Compac, and Gateway.

- A Mac computer is a personal computer made by the Apple Company. MacIntosh was its most popular style of computer several years ago. The new IMacs are popular with die-hard Mac fans, although not as many people today use Mac computers as used to.

A personal computer in your home can be used for many things, including word processing chores, personal and business letter writing, financial records and planning, internet searching, photography, and many other types of functions like graphic design and publishing. For the younger crowd, a personal computer can also be used to listen to music, watch movies or play detailed video games.

The basic elements of your personal computer that you choose, like the processor, amount of RAM, floppy or CD-Rom disk drives, hard disk drive, sound card, speakers, monitor, modem and graphics card will be determined by what kind of computer user you plan to be. Heavy users of complex programs will need much more “stuff” on their computer than the average computer user. Once you’ve determined how much of everything you need, you will be able to calculate an average cost for the computer you want.


