Title: 
Beat the Big Boys Online

Word Count:
581

Summary:
There are more than a hundred websites; in fact the number of website is exploding exponentially. If there were only a hundred Web sites, you might think they would each get a lot more attention, but that’s not the case.


Keywords:
internet marketing, building wealth, self-help, e-business, affiliate marketing, web design, internet business, success, home business


Article Body:
There are more than a hundred websites; in fact the number of website is exploding exponentially. If there were only a hundred Web sites, you might think they would each get a lot more attention, but that’s not the case. If there only a hundred web sites, no one would bother surfing the Web at all. It’s the large number of sites covering a large range of topics that has caused hundreds of millions of people to go online.

Web presence is not a zero sum game. That’s a term that economist use to describe a situation where one person making a gain means that someone else is making a loss. Instead, the more people who play the Internet game, that surf and interact online, , the more audience and money there is to go around. Because of this, other sites aren’t the enemy. Other sites are your friend.

Here in Toronto, there is a district that seems to be saturated with computer stores. You can get computer parts at great prices. There is intense competition, as the different stores compete on price, on the latest technology, on selection and quality. If you think about it, these shops are all cooperating. Even if the owners of the shop never speak to each other, even if they despise one another, they make the district the place to go for computer parts. And by offering such a huge selection overall, they make sure that anyone looking for a part is sure to find it there – no matter how obscure.  In contrast, the shopper at an unattached computer store may not find the desired part.

The stores are in competition, but competition and cooperation are not mutually exclusive. If you start an online site offering currency trading education and three other sites do the same, you are in competition with them. However your real competition is the similar educational tools in brick & mortar bookstores. If people start thinking that the web is the best place of tried and true trading strategies, then it helps you all.

All that is passive cooperation. It doesn’t require anyone to directly make plans with anyone else. Most of the active cooperation you are likely to be involved in will be with sites that are not offering exactly the same products and services that you are. Instead, you should try cooperating with sites that share the same audience but different products. A site that offers Country music may cooperate with a site that sells Cowboys hats. 

The overall point is that there is a large ocean of potential clients out there, and when you cooperate with others trying to fish in this ocean, you increase your chances of success. Better to have 1% of a billion dollar market than 100% of a million dollar market.

Think about working together with others online – learn from people who are doing what you want to do. The internet market is still growing – in both the number of users, but even the current users’ willingness to engage in commerce online. Be a part of it – even if it’s a small part, the rewards will blow your mind.

Thanks for reading,
Your Rich Cousin
(Author and Business Success Story) Get the free e-book that got me started and helped me start making money at http://www.richcousin.com It's so straight forward and easy to understand AND you will have the support you need to start making a great income online.


