Title: 
Benefits Of Coupons

Word Count:
797

Summary:
Coupon clipping is one of the most commonly used forms of saving money. From clipping coupons out of the local newspaper to getting coupons from your favorite retailer as a reward for being a customer, the benefits of coupons can apply to anybody. And while clipping and saving coupons for your next shopping excursion can be time consuming, the benefit of saving money is a positive aspect for any consumer. 

Many stores offer coupons on their most popular items as a way to d...


Keywords:
coupons,electronics, best coupons,online coupons


Article Body:
Coupon clipping is one of the most commonly used forms of saving money. From clipping coupons out of the local newspaper to getting coupons from your favorite retailer as a reward for being a customer, the benefits of coupons can apply to anybody. And while clipping and saving coupons for your next shopping excursion can be time consuming, the benefit of saving money is a positive aspect for any consumer. 

Many stores offer coupons on their most popular items as a way to drive customer traffic into the establishment. Still other stores offer coupons on discount merchandise as a way to get rid of the old stuff and make way for new items. Either way, the benefits of coupons works for the customer in that the store, in their effort to bring you into their establishment, is trying to save you money. Following are four major reasons why the benefits of coupons cannot be discounted. With a little thought and effort, the benefits of coupons can easily be applied to your grocery list, resulting in lots of dollars worth of savings. 

1. Savings: This is perhaps the biggest reason for clipping coupons. Most people are always looking to save a buck and coupons can help do just that. Shoppers who clip coupons diligently are usually the ones who can save the most. A lot of little coupons can add up to more than 50% of your overall bill, particularly at a grocery store. Most coupons offer more than just a percentage off of the item; they offer dollar amounts, which in the consumer’s mind, leads them to believe they are saving more money than if the coupon simply touted a percentage. Coupons are meant to have a two-fold purpose. They are meant to drive customers into certain stores and as a reward for shopping and spending their money in that store, the store offers the coupon both as a reward for coming in and as an incentive to return. 

2. Try Something New: A lot of times, people find coupons for savings on things they don’t normally use. This is a great opportunity to really get the most out of the benefits of coupons. Try something new. This is especially beneficial if the coupon makes this item less expensive than the brand you normally buy. So, go ahead and try that new cereal or laundry detergent. There’s really nothing to lose, because if it doesn’t work out, you can always switch back to your staple brand and you managed to save a little extra money this time around. 

3. Buy in Bulk: Most coupons have a buy two, get three free or they advertise special prices for items in bulk. The benefits of coupons is that they provide a reason to stock up on the items you use the most at a time when you can save money doing it. This encourages you to buy more items from the store because you are saving money on each item bought. 

4. Marketing: This is where the benefits of coupons come in handy for the retail store. Particularly if the store is the one issuing the coupons, it is a form of marketing. Not only does it contribute to the positive image of the store because of the discount and savings, but it also makes the name of the store more prominent on the shopper’s radar. They know to shop at Store X because that’s where their coupons are issued from and they know that’s where they can save money. 

The benefits of coupons are numerous, but there are some things to keep in mind. Most coupons have an expiration date and there are usually stipulations for their use. You are often limited to a quantity of products you can purchase with the coupon and some coupons do not work in conjunction with any others. There are also many coupons that only work at specific stores, which is where the marketing advantage of coupons works best. 

The benefits of coupons also works best when you carefully clip coupons to complement your shopping list and then go through each coupon to read through the individual stipulations to be sure you are able to use the coupon in conjunction with the other ones before you get the checkout line at the your local retailer. It also helps to match up coupons with what you have on your shopping list to save time at the grocery store and avoid unnecessary spending. After all, the benefits of coupons are meant to work as a money-saving factor for the consumer. If you are not prepared or haven’t figured out what you need, you will only end up spending more money in the end, therefore negating the entire benefits of the coupons.


