Title: 
Bring Your Family Home To The Internet

Word Count:
939

Summary:
Are you concerned about the mental, emotional and physical distress being placed on your family by our society? Actually, you should be! The family is clearly the most important unit in our society. However, it is well recognized that the family is in a negative down spiral. The social environment in which we live is turning our families into a complex unmanageable organization.

Statistics and facts show the family being overwhelmed by uncontrollable circumstances. Money M...


Keywords:
Family iMall, home and family, online shopping, family online


Article Body:
Are you concerned about the mental, emotional and physical distress being placed on your family by our society? Actually, you should be! The family is clearly the most important unit in our society. However, it is well recognized that the family is in a negative down spiral. The social environment in which we live is turning our families into a complex unmanageable organization.

Statistics and facts show the family being overwhelmed by uncontrollable circumstances. Money Management for example; there is never enough. The credit cards are overdrawn. You just bounced another check. You need to pay for school lunches-again. How does the young family manage on such a small income? Rent costs are out of sight. Inflation is settling on everything we purchase. How can we cope with the high price of gas?

Do you have a solution? Not likely. But there is a change needed. Maybe we need a new approach and outlook on life.

"You've got to win in your mind before you can win in your life." - John Addison

Actually this just might be the right place and time to make changes to our baseline strategy of managing our families. Now consider this very real fact for a moment.

Husbands, wives, fathers, mothers, parents, children really CAN manage their lives! You really can care for you family properly IF you can get just a little have help from friends. Think about it for a moment. If information is needed about how to manage a family where else would one go? The internet of course! There are incredible amounts of information on any subject you might have in mind. That is literally an ocean of products available at your finger tips. Really!

However, the internet is such a massive collection of products and data the average individual has no idea of how to use it properly. But the solution is rather simple. If we can’t take the family to the information why not bring the products and information to the family --- via the internet.

For instance let us put all the “products” and “help” into one place, i.e., a family oriented user friendly website. A website where you can go for one stop stopping for the information and merchandise needed for the family. Now you CAN save time and money! Now you have access to the information that might help you manage your family.

We are talking about a website that does more that just sell and run. The internet website we are talking about is a holistic family website with your family interest in mind. It is true the website would provide access to carefully selected merchants that will fulfill family shopping requirements. But if you have a family problem that needs immediate attention the website would provide access to those ebooks, documents, and links that will provide immediate help and guidance to you. AND if you cannot find exactly what you need on the website a search of the entire internet would be available for ebooks, links, document and other information. More importantly the information must be downloadable in digital form for immediate access.

A website to be of service to the family must do more than sell a product, take the money and disappear. It must supply additional functions to maintain health and well being for you and your family.

Can your family read? Of course they can! Let us rephrase this last question. Does your family read? If not why not? There are unlimited FREE downloadable ebooks, magazines, articles and other publication (any type you want) on the internet. Do you know what the top 100 downloaded ebooks were last week? You will on the family imall. Any classic work you desire is usually a free download. You can LISTEN to many popular books with free down loadable Audio eBooks? There is a fantastic selection on the internet. If you need additional documents or information you can search the entire internet with advanced ebook/ezine search pages. There are over 10,000 ebooks at you disposal. Do you suppose this would be more beneficial than 10 hours of TV violence every day for you family?

In order to stay current with the world there must be FREE informational news downloads and news letters to keep you informed. In order to save on the cost of gas you can keep abreast of the merchant national sales promotions from the current sales webpage. In addition for your convenience we have a website category directory page with many day to day informational functions. This includes a search page, news & weather, with much more

Are you interested in saving money through competitive shopping for you family? At the family imall all merchants are brought into one website for your convenience. You do not have to drive for hours just to get to each merchant. Also keep in mind anything you purchase from any of the merchants on the internet is delivered to your front door. In addition, there are ‘specialty ishops’ to cater to the popular needs of the family. When you become part of a family oriented website you seldom have to leave your home to shop.

If you ‘bring your family home to the internet’ you will be able to find and have access to what is required to manage a family. A family mall is about Internet honesty and morality.  It is a website where a family member can go for an honest no scam internet deal. It is more than just selling. It is about sharing. It is about being of assistance in times of distress and in good times.

It is about your family.


