Title: 
Building Your Way To Online Success-Part 1

Word Count:
1090

Summary:
As your alarm clock explodes into life each morning, and you reach out to pound it back into submission for another ten minutes, does the thought ever cross your mind that there could be a way to end this same tired, old routine?

Each day, as you make your way to and from your workplace, amidst the fumes, frustration, and financial drain that is the lot of a commuter, do you ever dream of being able to step out of your bedroom and straight into your workplace?

If you’re...


Keywords:
start business,start online business,how to start a business,online business,business website


Article Body:
As your alarm clock explodes into life each morning, and you reach out to pound it back into submission for another ten minutes, does the thought ever cross your mind that there could be a way to end this same tired, old routine?

Each day, as you make your way to and from your workplace, amidst the fumes, frustration, and financial drain that is the lot of a commuter, do you ever dream of being able to step out of your bedroom and straight into your workplace?

If you’re a Star Trek fan, you may be thinking, “Yes! Beam me up Scottie”--but if that was your first thought, then I’m afraid you may have to wait a little while longer. Transporter technology hasn’t quite been perfected yet. However, in spite of that slight delay in scientific progress, there is still a way to have the commute-free lifestyle you’ve been longing for. In fact, there are many people who have already turned that dream into a reality by successfully building their own home-based online businesses.

For the online business owner, there are no traffic jams, no co-workers breathing down their neck, and best of all, no BOSS! What more could anyone ask?

It sounds wonderful, and it certainly can be. However, achieving the type of success that will free you from the 9 to 5 rat race, does not just happen by itself.

The unfortunate fact is that most people will never reach this level of business success--not because they don’t have what it takes, but rather because they aren’t willing, or prepared, to take the time and effort needed to establish a proper business structure.

Now, right from the start, I’ll quite honestly say that this guide does not come with any absolute promises or guarantees. When it comes to business, there is no such thing as a “sure thing.” However, it does contain solid, time-tested procedures and advice that are essential for anyone who wants to succeed in any form of business. The new business owner ignores these things at their own risk--and, sadly, many do.

One of the main problems, when starting a business, is that many people begin with unrealistic expectations and the wrong information. If you do an internet search about starting a home-based business, you will be flooded with sites that promise to reveal the secrets of success that will help you to get rich quick. With titles such as, “How I Made $100,000 in 3 Days,” they tempt the budding entrepreneur with offers that seem too good to be true--and they usually are. Although it may be possible for someone to make a lot of money in a relatively short space of time, the reality is that for the vast majority, it is completely unlikely. Creating any form of successful business takes time, preparation, commitment and hard work.

Although many people want to start their own online businesses, very few actually know how to go about doing it ... but that doesn’t stop them. Armed with little more than a desire to make money, they rush in and begin something that they are completely unprepared and unsuited for.

A quick search on any topic will provide a plethora of sites providing relevant products or services for sale. If you take the time to visit these websites, you’ll quickly notice that most are quite unprofessional in appearance, and have little, if any, chance of success. Why? Quite simply because the new business owner has started things off on the wrong foot.

There really aren’t any special secrets to starting an online business, but there are some basic steps that will help you build your way to an online success.

Step 1: DECIDE WHAT YOUR BUSINESS IS GOING TO BE

At first glance, this initial stage of starting a business appears incredibly simple, if not completely obvious. Yet you may be surprised to discover how many people are involved in a business for which they have no experience or training. In fact, many have not even taken the time to research the field at all.

It makes good sense to choose a line of business for which you have some affinity. For example, if you have experience in designing and creating handcrafted items, a potential business opportunity would be that of an online store devoted to selling your crafts, and those of other artisans. Because you have a background in this particular field, you would have an immediate rapport with your target audience, and be able to understand what is important to them regarding your type of product. You would also be able to provide accurate and interesting articles that are relevant to your field of expertise. As a marketing tool, many a business has been enhanced by the introduction of an informative newsletter.

So, experience in your chosen field is definitely a big advantage. But there is one other thing that is vital--and that’s passion. There is no question that a person who is passionate about their business will have a far greater chance of seeing it become a success, than would someone who is ambivalent about their product or service. Believe me, I speak from experience.

Many years ago, my wife started cleaning homes as a way of earning another income, and she did very well.

A few years later, seeing the opportunity to make money, I decided to get involved in the cleaning business too, and I also did quite well. However, even though I was very happy to have my own business, I never truly enjoyed what I was doing. In fact, I have to admit that I dreaded the work. As a result of my lackluster attitude, I never took that business to the level that it could have reached if I had been at all passionate about it.

There is a lot of truth in the saying that “If you do what you love, you will never work a day in your life.” So before rushing headlong into the first business opportunity that comes your way, make sure that you take the time to really consider what is the right business for you, based on your interests, experience, talents and passions. If making money is the only positive factor, then think again. Taking the time to get this first step right, will ensure that you have a rock-solid foundation upon which to build the online success of your dreams.

Please look for Part 2 of Building Your Way to Online Success.


