Title: 
Buying Your Internet Products At A Major Discount

Word Count:
739

Summary:
Making an income online has been a goal of mine for years.

My biggest desire is to retire on a sailing ship in the Mediterranean and each week on a Monday when I go out on deck, I would reach for my mobile phone and call my old boss and check on the weather back in Britain.

Or maybe I would wait until the sun was over the yard arm and call him so say “Hey do you recognize this sound?” (holding the phone over the side of the guard rail)… “That’s the sound of the Mediterr...


Keywords:
income,online,online income,business,business start up,affiliate program,affiliate


Article Body:
Making an income online has been a goal of mine for years.

My biggest desire is to retire on a sailing ship in the Mediterranean and each week on a Monday when I go out on deck, I would reach for my mobile phone and call my old boss and check on the weather back in Britain.

Or maybe I would wait until the sun was over the yard arm and call him so say “Hey do you recognize this sound?” (holding the phone over the side of the guard rail)… “That’s the sound of the Mediterranean sun kissed sea lapping against my yacht, while this” (popping the top off my chilled bottle of Grolsch), “is the sound of my chilled beer helping to keep me cool…. How’s work by the way?”

That day is getting closer, but it could have been here by now if only I hadn’t been so pig headed.

You see, I thought I knew best. I believed that if I build it they would come. Worse still, I believed I knew what people wanted.

How dumb was I?

As it turns out, not that dumb. You see, I was willing to admit I had been wrong, I was willing to look for a better solution and then I was willing to pay for it.

It’s never too late to start again. With that in mind, I started looking for solutions. These solutions had to meet certain criteria.

1. Be able to get high quality products at a discounted price.
2. Be able to offer services to absolute beginners and experts alike.
3. Be affordable.
4. Have clear instructions and/or training.
5. Offer solutions that people outside of marketing would desire.

That seems like a tall order, but I believed I could find a solution, if I didn’t then I would create one.

What really surprised me when I looked was that the solutions were there right in front of me and what surprised me more was that I had seen these solutions and ignored them because I had seen them so often before!

How dumb is that? If you keep seeing the same product being offered month after month, year after year, then it probably works. Why? Because nobody is going to spend good money advertising a lemon are they? Of course not.

Here’s one of the solutions I found and what it has to offer, remember the list above?

1. High quality products with resale rights and sometimes, master resale rights. New products added monthly and I could request a product as well.
2. This is a zero experience solution (see 4 below).
3. The cost is about the same as a large pizza and coke.
4. Each section of the member’s area has clear instructions that anyone can follow.
5. There are products that are of interest to Internet marketers and non-marketers alike.

Looks like a winner! It is, believe me, it is.

I have seen the website for this site so many times that after reading it years ago, (and dismissing it because I though I knew better), I only read it again this year.

Having read it again and again, I looked at the price and got my payment card out right away. I haven’t looked back since. I now have the new version of the site on a new domain.

One of the first things I did was read a course called “Online Advertising For the Completely Clueless!".

I’ve been running my online business for about four or five years. I didn’t think I was clueless, BUT all I could do was nod my head and scribble notes.

I was so impressed that I now offer this course for free to anyone who wants it. It’s big, really big, so are the results you can get by following the course and acting on the advice.

So by now you are saying tell me where I can get my hands on all this information, right?

OK. Just visit http://www.pushbuttononline.com/Recommends/ and don’t make the mistake I did.

If you are unsure when you visit the site, take a good look at what’s on offer, sign up for the course at the bottom of the page http://www.pushbuttononline.com then when you are done just 5 days from now, go back to the site and look again.

My yacht is becoming a reality at last.


