Title: 
Can Stay At Home Moms Be Successful On The Internet?

Word Count:
831

Summary:
In the midst of downsizing, layoffs and the genuine need for two incomes in most families these days, there are now literally hundreds of thousands of stay at home Moms that are considering starting their own home based Internet businesses.

For those of you have had the pleasure, you know that the job of a stay at home Mom is one of the most demanding jobs you can have. I am not kidding! I have the upmost admiration for mothers who have made the decision to stay at home an...


Keywords:



Article Body:
In the midst of downsizing, layoffs and the genuine need for two incomes in most families these days, there are now literally hundreds of thousands of stay at home Moms that are considering starting their own home based Internet businesses.

For those of you have had the pleasure, you know that the job of a stay at home Mom is one of the most demanding jobs you can have. I am not kidding! I have the upmost admiration for mothers who have made the decision to stay at home and care for their children, as I do for those mothers in the workplace who struggle with all the challenges that decision brings.

I have five adult daughters and on a number of occasions during their childhood, I have had the "pleasure" of staying home with my daughters for one reason or another. Don't ask me how I found myself in that predicament, it just kind of happened. I must say that I received a real education regarding this most demanding of professions.

How did their Mother actually do that day in and day out? Listen, I will take the challenges of going to an office or running my own business any day! Hands down!

Nevertheless, there are stay at home Moms, much more capable than the author of this article, who possess not only the unique skills of being able to corral their children skillfully at home, but operate their own home based businesses as well. They have determined that they can just as easily run and manage a family as well as a business, particularly an internet based business, all from the comforts of their homes.

This is the reason that so many mothers choose to work at home. They want to establish some type of financial standings while still being able to watch over their children. Making money online can be a great idea for stay at home moms. It provides a flexible schedule as well as the benefit of little commuting. Some examples of great ways to make money online are: owning a home business, completing surveys, freelancing, and reading emails. Providing mothers with the best ways to make an income online, these opportunities put money into moms' pockets.

Owning an online business can be difficult, but if a person is dedicated it can be very beneficial. Even though these businesses are not an easy task, they will still provide moms enough time with their children. There are many businesses to choose from. Some of the businesses require a fee to provide you with a product to sell. Others, such as Cognigen, will provide products and a website for free.

Completing surveys gives mothers total freedom. Because surveys are taken only when one agrees to take them, they are perfect for moms who children need constant care. The amount of money earned from surveys depends on how many surveys a person is willing to answer. A mom can earn from $25 to $600 a month from answering surveys.

Freelancing is a broad way to make money online. Freelancers are hired on to a company as a contractor. In many cases freelancing allows one to earn money for what he/she loves. One example is a mother who loves to write. There are many online opportunities for writing. The mother may start a blog or write articles on parenting. She may even put her creative writing skills to the test by writing short stories. There are other freelancing prospects such as cartooning, web design, consulting, data entry, and desktop publishing. The list of freelance jobs is abundant.

The popularity of reading emails is rising higher each day. While this is not a great way to earn large amounts of money, it is an excellent way to earn a few extra dollars. Reading emails is a fairly easy way for stay at home moms to earn money. Emails are sent to the email address that is set up with the program. Money, which is stored to an account, is paid to the person who reads the email. Most of the programs have a minimum payout. The company will only pay a person once the minimum has been reached. One should have a separate email address just for the purpose of the emails. One can use the same email address, but it is not recommended since so many emails will be
sent.

These are just some of the ideas how stay at home Moms can establish an online internet presence, generate income for themselves and their families, without negatively their primary responsibilities at home...their children. There are thousands of stay at home Moms who are successful running home based Internet businesses today.

Can stay at home Moms be successful on the Internet? Absolutely, and they are doing it everyday. You can too! So why don't you take a few minutes during the children's nap time tomorrow and see what the opportunities are. You will be glad you did!

Warm regards,
Kenny Anderson


