Title: 
Can You Make Money With A Turnkey Business Website?

Word Count:
455

Summary:
There are lots of ways to start making money online, but all come with a cost. You can spend the time to learn about html, website design and scripts, and build your own website, or join an opportunity which gives you a sales site identical to everyone elses, but there is another way.

You can buy a turnkey business website. This is a prebuilt website which is all ready to take orders, and make you money, but can you really make money with these sites? 

The simple answer...


Keywords:
turnkey website,instant business website,home business website,premade website,website sales


Article Body:
There are lots of ways to start making money online, but all come with a cost. You can spend the time to learn about html, website design and scripts, and build your own website, or join an opportunity which gives you a sales site identical to everyone elses, but there is another way.

You can buy a turnkey business website. This is a prebuilt website which is all ready to take orders, and make you money, but can you really make money with these sites? 

The simple answer is yes you can make money with a prebuilt website, and it will help you to cut a lot of corners in getting started in your own online business. With a turnkey website there is no need to learn all the geeky stuff behind the scenes, as long as you buy from a reputable seller, the site should be ready to update with your details in a simple admin panel, and start making sales.

There are a lot of different turnkey website packages available, and you'd need to do a little research to find out what is best for you. Do you want to own a sales site selling digital products, be an affiliate for another company with a prebuilt store updated from the main companies website, or do you want to try making money with Google Adsense?

Once you have decided what kind of website you want, you can then purchase a turnkey website which does what you want it to. Then your work begins. Unless you pay the extra for a site which is already developed, which could run into thousands of dollars, you will be buying a site which is all setup, but has no traffic. You will need to do the work to get a steady stream of traffic to your site, but this is the case with any business, you will need to bring in your potential customers. This will involve doing link exchanges, advertising and promoting your website address to get people to your site to turn into customers. An advantage of a turnkey site is that the copy will have been written by a profesional, so it should have a higher conversion rate than a site you built by yourself, making it easier to turn browsers into customers.

If you want a shortcut to owning a website business online, then turnkey sites are well worth looking into. Just make sure you know what you want before you purchase and don't believe you will be able to buy a site, kickback and do nothing but watch the money pour in, you will still have to build your business the same as any other and put in some effort to get customers.


