Title: 
Chitika Means Big Cash For Publishers

Word Count:
295

Summary:
There are hundreds of thousands of websites on the Internet that are missing out on big money. With the emergence of the new Chitika eMiniMalls advertising company, these websites could be bringing in hundreds of dollars a day, and they don't even know it.

For years people have built websites around their passions, whether is was Mustang Cobras or food processors. These websites existed solely because the person that created them had a passion for that subject.

With the...


Keywords:
chitika, income, revenue, increase, make money


Article Body:
There are hundreds of thousands of websites on the Internet that are missing out on big money. With the emergence of the new Chitika eMiniMalls advertising company, these websites could be bringing in hundreds of dollars a day, and they don't even know it.

For years people have built websites around their passions, whether is was Mustang Cobras or food processors. These websites existed solely because the person that created them had a passion for that subject.

With the introduction of Chitika, these websites now have an opportunity to finally cash in from all of the selfless hard work that has been put into them. If they've been around a while, they most likely have a decent amount of backlinks and indexed pages, which equates to more traffic.

Publishers shouldn't waste any longer registering at Chitika eMiniMalls (chitika.com). While waiting for approval, these publishers should visit publisher forums and learn as much as possible about ad placement, colors and how to select their products.

Of course, if their website is all about coffee cups, they'd be best off selecting items that relate to coffee cups! But they should also be willing to think outside of the box a little. Items such as coffee grinders, decorative spoons and even coffee makers could be potential money makers.

Once they are approved, they should waste no time getting their ads onto their sites. If they've used a good blogging program or other CMS-type program, getting the ads to replicate throughout all the currently existing pages shouldn't be too much of a hassle.

If you've been publishing a website for a few years about a product or subject that you're passionate about, but you aren't making anything off of it, it's time for you to check out Chitika!


