Title: 
Choosing The Best Italian Charms Wholesale

Word Count:
453

Summary:
Italian charms bracelets and charms are the latest craze. They’re a perfect addition to any store, and quickly sell out. Purchasing Italian charms wholesale is a great way to cut your cost. You’ll find many great wholesale dealers online which you can check out for some great deals. But before you buy, here are some guidelines for selectingthe right wholesale Italian charm supplier.

One of the biggest problems with many Italian charm wholesale dealers online is the quality...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Italian charms bracelets and charms are the latest craze. They’re a perfect addition to any store, and quickly sell out. Purchasing Italian charms wholesale is a great way to cut your cost. You’ll find many great wholesale dealers online which you can check out for some great deals. But before you buy, here are some guidelines for selectingthe right wholesale Italian charm supplier.

One of the biggest problems with many Italian charm wholesale dealers online is the quality of their websites. I don’t know if it's just a lack of creativity or if Italian dealers are simply too thrifty to hire designers, but their websites simply look horrible. The abuse and overuse of graphics that is more of an annoyance than a help. To the customer.

Don’t be discouraged by the awful graphics – remember that your purpose for visiting the website is to get a hold of affordable Italian charm wholesale merchandise. First you’ll need to register an account, though different wholesale providers do this differently. Some dealers want to see a copy of your resale license as proof that you really are a legitimate retail business. This, of course, would depend on which state you live in, as some states don’t require a sales tax license – if this applies to you, you may need to explain that to your chosen provider.

It's also better to have two to three wholesale suppliers since, as Italian charms sell so quickly. Also, beware of phony Italian charms. Real Italian charms are made from 18k gold ribbon that is flattened and molded, then soldered on the back to a strip of stainless steel links. In some cases, the Italian charm is protected with enamel.

In order to make sure that you're getting only genuine Italian charms merchandis, purchase only from reputable wholesalers that get their supply from top manufacturers like Casa d’oro, Roma, Italia, GP Firenze, Boxing, Unodomani, Zoppini, Nomination, Puzzle Talexia, and Brunoz Zanetti. The best thing about Italian charms is that different brands are interchangeable, and the quality of these brands is excellent.

Most of the fake Italian charms are from Asia, usually made with gold plating and glue– if you see one, they're easy to spot as a fake. Once you're sure that your chosen Italian charm wholesale supplier is selling the real thing, only then should you place an order. Depending on the quantity of Italian charms you purchase, you may be eligible for discounts from the supplier.

Don't be afraid to ask the wholesale supplier any questions regarding their products and their delivery options. Remember that it 's through a supplier’s customer service that you can really determine whether or not they're reliable.


