Title: 
Cruise Message Boards Explained

Word Count:
590

Summary:
Are you a cruise addict? Love to travel and discover new places? Or, have you been cruising for months? Then, I bet you will be happy to know that there are a number of cruise message boards online these days where you can post and share your own cruising experiences or ask the other cruise addicts about new places to discover.

But before anything else, I want to make clear for those who don’t have any idea about cruising that the term “cruising” refers to a lifestyle that...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Are you a cruise addict? Love to travel and discover new places? Or, have you been cruising for months? Then, I bet you will be happy to know that there are a number of cruise message boards online these days where you can post and share your own cruising experiences or ask the other cruise addicts about new places to discover.

But before anything else, I want to make clear for those who don’t have any idea about cruising that the term “cruising” refers to a lifestyle that involves living full time on a boat while traveling from place to place.  It refers to trips of a few days or more, and can even extend to round-the-world voyages. It is interesting to know that many cruisers are long term, meaning they travel for a number of years, and perhaps the most adventurous is circling the glove over a period of three to ten years. Sounds interesting, isn’t it?

So you’re now a bit interested about cruising.  Well, I have here below some cruise message boards where you can access features as a guest or as a member. Note that there’s a big difference between being a guest and being a member.  In the first place, if you are only a guest, there are some limitations when it comes to your access. In most cases, cruise message boards guests are only allowed to view few discussions on the board. The access to the other features like articles, and others also limited. Having said all these, it is then best to register on these cruise message boards as a member. It does give you a full access to the communities’ features, and you are allowed to post messages and replies to the other members of the group.  Once you are a member, you are free to meet, chat and make friends with the other cruise lovers.

Here are few of the most visited cruise message boards online:

Cruise-Addicts.com’s Forums

Cruise Addicts is an online community where you can join and meet more than 20,000 cruise lovers from around the world discussion all things related to cruise travel. As what I’ve said earlier, for you to gain full access to the cruise message boards of Cruise Addicts, you must register for a free account.  Once you have registered, you will be able to participate in more than a hundred cruise topic forums and browse from over 1.2 million posts. Also, you can communicate privately with the other cruise lover from around the world, post your own photos or view from 23,000 user submitted photos, post and browse member cruise reviews and track your upcoming cruise with the company’s Cruise Tracker. All these and much more are available you when you register for a free account.

CruiseMates.com’s Message Boards

Cruise Mates is said to be an independently owned and editorially unbiased Internet cruise magazine and cruise information guidebook offering accurate and up to the minute cruise information and providing a place for the cruise addicts to meet. One of the company’s features that provide cruise addicts to meet other cruise lovers is their cruise message boards. In these message boards, you can find information about cruise lines, potential destinations, people, practical advices and you can even meet fellow cruisers from around the world on board.  However, just like the previously mentioned site, you are also required to register for a free account so that you can access the full features of Cruise Mates’ cruise message boards.


