Title: 
Dealing With Public Service Ads On Your Website

Word Count:
458

Summary:
Many of us start out with websites that we want to generate some income with, so we think that Google is the one and only solution to our desire or even our need to earn some extra money. And, it’s fair to say that a lot of money can be made with the use of Google ads on one’s website, but only if they work correctly. Money is made on these ads when relevant ads are posted on our website so that visitors can click on them and we can be compensated for every click! Unfortunate...


Keywords:
adsense, google, chitika, advertising


Article Body:
Many of us start out with websites that we want to generate some income with, so we think that Google is the one and only solution to our desire or even our need to earn some extra money. And, it’s fair to say that a lot of money can be made with the use of Google ads on one’s website, but only if they work correctly. Money is made on these ads when relevant ads are posted on our website so that visitors can click on them and we can be compensated for every click! Unfortunately, a good deal of the time one will visit their website only to find that public service ads have been placed on their website by Google, and these ads don’t pay at all when your visitors click on them.

You can report the fact that you have had a lot of public service ads on your website to Google, but generally there is not much that Google can do about it. The public service ads are placed on your website when relevant or targeted ads are unavailable, or when Google is simply unable to obtain information from the page to display relevant ads. This can be frustrating when for one reason or another ads that pay are not posted on your website continually. The reason that this is so frustrating is that you have only aligned yourself with Google AdSense to make some cash on your website, even if you are not profiting from it in any other manner.

Luckily, if you are tired of seeing public service ads on your website you CAN do something about it. You don’t have to sit by and wait for Google to decide that you are worthy of those ads that pay! You can visit a website such as www.defaultads.com which will show you how to monetize public service ads and even alternate the ads shown when Google AdSense, or Chitika, and other content advertising networks cannot accommodate your needs with targeted ads on your webpage. This awesome website can help you out when you load all of your affiliate or other ads into DefaultAds when it quickly generates a link to include in your Google AdSense alternate ad URL.

This system will allow you to make money when you typically wouldn’t be making any at all! The best thing about this system is that it is totally risk free. You don’t have to worry about the content that will be shown as DefaultAds will only show their ads one out of every 100 impressions and they will be the same size, quality, and will even target the same category that you would target with the Google ads!


