Title: 
Does Every Business Need A Web Presence?

Word Count:
727

Summary:
Many small businesses today are undecided whether or not they should have a website to allow customers to purchase products online or further advertise their services. After all, building a website takes both time and money and hiring someone else to do the job for you costs even more. Some business owners may even think that since their company only consists of an employee or two, they really have no need for an online presence. Still other companies may not even want to sel...


Keywords:
web builder, site builder, site creator


Article Body:
Many small businesses today are undecided whether or not they should have a website to allow customers to purchase products online or further advertise their services. After all, building a website takes both time and money and hiring someone else to do the job for you costs even more. Some business owners may even think that since their company only consists of an employee or two, they really have no need for an online presence. Still other companies may not even want to sell their products online. What one factor do all of these businesses have in common? Believe it or not, they can all benefit from having an online presence. Fortunately today there are web builder tools available that allow even those with little technical skills to design their own website. Best of all, these web builder tools are available at a cost that is affordable to anyone. With options like these, there really is no reason why you shouldn’t have a website to promote your business.

If you think your business is too small to need a website, think again. Even a small business run by just one person can benefit from an online presence. The more people you promote your products and services to, the more sales you are likely to make. Without a web presence, you are losing out on valuable customers. Just like large corporations, small businesses need customers in order to make a profit. If you don’t have a website, you are losing sales to other companies that offer a product similar to yours. Sure building a website will take some time but it will be well worth your effort. There are several small companies today that make the majority of their profits from online sales. Your small business could very well be one of those companies in the future. Why not take the time today to see what types of web builder tools are available? Even though you don’t have to be a Webmaster to use these tools, you can still have a professional looking website that gives your company online credibility. How your site looks to the public is almost as important as the products you offer.

Even companies that do not wish to sell online or those that feel their products would be difficult to market online, can still benefit from using web builder tools to design their sight. First of all, there are not too many products today that aren’t being sold online. With the emergence of bidding sites such as Ebay, even larger items such as automobiles and real estate are being sold. Ecommerce in many cases has become the way to do business. By using web builder tools to design your own site, you can start cashing in on some of this online revenue.

Business owners who don’t wish to sell online may feel a website is a total waste of time and money. However, this couldn’t be farther from the truth. All businesses can benefit from online marketing even if they don’t sell online. By using web builder tools to design a professional looking site, you are making your available products or services known to the public. Just because customers cannot use their credit card to purchase online from your company, many will still be inclined to contact you if you present your products in a professional manner. By giving out your company contact info such as email, fax, phone number, and physical address, customers have a number of methods in which to contact you. It is always a good idea to list your street address even for customers who are located out of state or in a different country. When people see this it often makes them feel more secure about ordering from you. Once customers have contacted you about purchases, you can then make payment arrangements for products. You may wish to receive checks by mail or take their credit card information over the phone to process orders. Some customers may even be within driving distance of your business. By having a website designed with web builder tools, you have made your presence known to customers both in your area and across the country. No matter what your type of business, web builder tools can help you design a site that will increase customer revenue.


