Title: 
Five Scams You'll Want To Avoid

Word Count:
412

Summary:
Many websites claim to offer home business opportunties. Some people do make money at home through online jobs, but many of these so-called opportunities are scams.


Keywords:
scams, scams to avoid, five scams to avoid


Article Body:
Many websites claim to offer home business opportunties. Some people do make money at home through online jobs, but many of these so-called opportunities are scams. How do you know the difference? Here are some tips for avoiding home business scams.

First, use some common sense. If you are looking because you're short on funds, it can be easy to talk yourself into believing the promises you will read online. Try to look at the offers objectively. Many scams try to convince you that you will become wealthy with little effort, and you might even see on the website that this is some "secret" for making money that is just now being revealed. Much later they reveal the cost for learning the secret. Before buying this kind of information, take a moment to wonder why it's being sold. If it's really that effective, the person selling it should be wealthy and not need to sell anything.

Second, don't get involved in a pyramid scheme. These are programs that pay you to recruit but don't really have a product to sell. You make money by getting other people to join the system. This only works for those who start the pyramid scheme, and is illegal in several states. Note that this is not the same as home party or similar plans where you get a percentage from what you sell in addition to a percentage from those you recruit.

Third, don't pay to stuff envelopes or make products. In fact, don't pay to work for anybody.

Forth, getting paid to do Survey's. While some companies may pay you, I have found that the majority do not. They offer a entery into a sweepstakes where "you could win" but in my experience the sweepstakes even has a catch as well where if you do win they want you to pay a registration fee of let's say $600.00 then you will get the "All inclusive trip for 2 to the Bahama's". Don't buy into it. There are way better things to waste your time on.

And lastly, anything with the word "Blaster" in it is a SCAM, unless you want your email filling up with spam don't do it. I had a campaign with Ad Blaster and I'm still unsubscribing to spammers.

Avoiding home business scams means avoiding anything that offers easy wealth. It also means avoiding paying to work for somebody. Don't expect anything online that makes no sense in the real world. Don't get scammed.


