Title: 
Freelancing - The Way Forward for Webmasters

Word Count:
528

Summary:
Ten years ago the internet was in its infancy. Computer science was hardly a proper, or prudent, choice of career for the serious person. Those who tended to enrol themselves in such courses were expected to end up with jobs as computer technicians and nothing more than that.


Keywords:
Freelancing, freelancers, webmasters, internet business, web design


Article Body:
Ten years ago the internet was in its infancy. Computer science was hardly a proper, or prudent, choice of career for the serious person. Those who tended to enrol themselves in such courses were expected to end up with jobs as computer technicians and nothing more than that. Such careers had no particular gravitas – but all that has changed.

The modern world is a global village and this is thanks to the internet above all else. Markets have been made available that would hitherto have been hidden – and the field is rife with potential for success. Companies are slowly catching up to this latent hegemony – and the power that lies beneath the fingertips is being recognised internationally from governments downwards.

Small and large companies alike are vying for pole position in attempting to capture the imagination of the huge international markets. Such demographics have enormous spending power as is evidenced by the success of firms such as Ebay and Amazon. With costs kept so low compared to more conventional brick and mortar businesses, there is little wonder as to why so many companies have ‘gone online’. Even the humble webmaster working from his garage or bedroom can make millions, most recently the school student Alex Tew made his first million by selling pixel adverts! He sold one million pixels in half a year!

Competition is tough however – everyone wants a slice of the advertising potential of the internet. Markets can be powerful yet fickle and attempts to capitalise on these new areas can be fraught with danger for the inexperienced. 

Great emphasis is now placed on the visible branding of a company. Web designers and developers convey specific messages to their audiences – working as both artists and public relations officers in their quest to secure leads for their clients by producing enticing and practical designs and structures. 

The humble computer graduate has never been so eagerly sought after. A whole new breed of web developers has sprung up. There is now a work force of eager, attentive, enthusiastic and energetic freelancers available to the savvy employer. Vitally, these individuals tend to opt for this type of work not out of a need for profit, or a lack of choice, but because they actively enjoy web design and development. You cannot pay for such devotion in most other fields of work.

It’s the win-win situation to beat all others. There has never been a better time to hire freelance web designers and developers – and it has never been such a good time to be one! Many have noted the irony that has befallen the career of the computer science expert – now the most coveted of all professions. 

Powerful Tools: Outsourcing and Hiring Freelancers

Knowing your limitations is the subtle art to being a webmaster. Knowing when to do the work yourself and when your time is better spent on other things is a skill in itself! Investing in the expertise of a freelancer can save you money and time. But where do you find them? Fortunately there are sites that do the hard work for you – where freelancers meet to fight for the privilege to work for you!


