Title: 
Getting Quality One Way Links For Free

Word Count:
617

Summary:
As you probably know, building your link popularity is the best way to get good search engine placement and free traffic for life for your websites. A lot of people have trouble with this, so I decided to make a small list with the methods I use to get tons of quality one way links to my sites.

1. The first and best way to do this is to write articles related to your site. Now this technique may not be new to many of you out there but I can assure you that a lot of people ...


Keywords:
free traffic, free links, one way links, link popularity, link building, link, links, get links


Article Body:
As you probably know, building your link popularity is the best way to get good search engine placement and free traffic for life for your websites. A lot of people have trouble with this, so I decided to make a small list with the methods I use to get tons of quality one way links to my sites.

1. The first and best way to do this is to write articles related to your site. Now this technique may not be new to many of you out there but I can assure you that a lot of people don’t know how to take advantage of this great opportunity. Your articles should be somewhere between 300 – 500 words with your resource box attached at the end. This should contain a small 3rd person description of yourself, something like: “John Doe is a well respected senior writer and owner of the site http://.....”

After you have your article written all you need to do is go to http://www.google.com and do a search for “article directory”. At the time of this writing there are 374.000.000 results for this search. You should send your articles to as many article directories as possible. The more you send the more traffic you get. The more traffic you make, the more sales you have. The more sales you have, the more money you make. Get the picture? Consider sending your articles to the first 2 pages of results on your first day, then do the next 2 pages the following day, and so on.

2. After you start writing articles, you should start a blog about your business and make regular posts to it. You can start one here: http://www.wordpress.com After each post go to http://www.pingomatic.com or http://www.pingoat.com and ping your blog so that it will be picked up by the search engines. If you make constant posts to it, then the search engine spiders will know to regularly come back to your site.

After you have your blog, you can go to http://www.google.com and do a search for “blog directory”. At the time of this writing there are 224.000.000 results for this search so this should keep you busy for a while. Use the same strategy as for the articles and send your blog to the first 2 pages the first day, then the next 2 pages and so on…You should stop only after you send your blog to at least 100 directories. It may take some time, but the traffic will be worth it.

3. Another good way to get one way links to your sites is to post comments on other people’s blogs. Again, use Google to do a search for “ (your business) blog ”. Then do comments on the high PR blogs, as you can attach a link back to your site under your comment.

4. Give testimonials to programs you have bought or liked and include an active link back to your site. Don’t just write a 2-3 line testimonial because it probably won’t get picked for the home page. Instead, try writing an interesting useful one, not too long, but not too short either and you’ll have a bigger shot.

5. Try making posts on forums regularly. The best way to get noticed out there is to help others, as they will appreciate and trust you and your recommendations. You can have a sig file with your link back to your site after every post you make. The more posts, the more exposure for you and your business.

So these are the top ways of getting free one way links back to your sites. Use this info wisely and your business will flourish.


