Title: 
Getting Started On Ebay

Word Count:
459

Summary:
EBay has become one of the internet largest selling portal today, it has offered a variety of business an excellent market of getting their products to their customers in a fashion that is unmatched throughout the entire internet


Keywords:
loans, uk finance


Article Body:
EBay has become one of the internet largest selling portal today, it has offered a variety of business an excellent market of getting their products to their customers in a fashion that is unmatched throughout the entire internet. Many sellers have been able to increase their income and wages and make thousands and millions each year just by using this online auction portal. By offering your customers the conveniences of using EBay to purchase your goods, you are letting them know you are serious about your business and your products. Prior to becoming a seller on EBay there are a few things you should know and do before you begin your new venture.

The first thing you should do is read over the EBay rules and regulations, this will help you avoid conflict and know what you can and cannot do. There are some rules on what can and cannot be sold and how you can and cannot sell them. It is important to thoroughly read and understand all these rules and regulations prior to selling, so you will have the ability to protect yourself.

The next thing you should do is know who your customers are, by fully understanding your market and whom you want to sell to, you will be better able to determine what titles, details, and content you should put to target the specific audience you want to target. Additionally, make sure you are aware of all fees involved with EBay, they have a specific chart of selling fees, many sellers will integrate these fees into the price of their items so they will not lose out on any money.

Another important aspect of selling on EBay is to know the payment schemes that are available and that you are willing to accept. EBay allows you to make use of credit cards, checks, money orders, and Pay Pal payment services. When you list an item you should clearly state what you are willing to and not willing to accept, this is extremely important and you should make sure your customers fully understand this when bidding. EBay is not all about auctions, though this is a large portion of it. EBay also offers ”Stores” for business that want to sell as “Buy Now” instead of putting up for the highest bidders. EBay comes with a great amount of different options for sellers. 

Some options include the ability to specify the area in which your customers can purchase from, the currency type they can use to purchase your items, for bidding items you can specify if you want bidders who have negative feedback or not. There are a lot of different features with EBay that can help you make a good deal of money if used correctly.


