Title: 
Swapclix: Pull Profit From Clicks!

Word Count:
363

Summary:
So, What Exactly Is Swapclix?

Have you been thinking bout the SwapClix program? The sales page doesn't exactly provide a wealth of information, so allow me to give you the lowdown! Swapclix is a particularly simple concept that instructs you to place ads search engines, then...when people click your ads...they are then directed to your webpage where YOU get PAID 25 cents to over $1 when that visitor clicks the ads that are displayed on your page!

Will Swapclix Work For ...


Keywords:
swapclix


Article Body:
So, What Exactly Is Swapclix?

Have you been thinking bout the SwapClix program? The sales page doesn't exactly provide a wealth of information, so allow me to give you the lowdown! Swapclix is a particularly simple concept that instructs you to place ads search engines, then...when people click your ads...they are then directed to your webpage where YOU get PAID 25 cents to over $1 when that visitor clicks the ads that are displayed on your page!

Will Swapclix Work For Me?

Ok, heres my take on it! I bought SwapClix in December last year. With Swapclix you get software that produces your actual webpage... it turned out very simple to use by the way... and following the step by step guide provided i managed to put together my first fully fledged Swapclix site in a little over a day. Over the next 24 hours it generated $4 for me. The first site proved to be the toughest to put together because the second Swapclix site took only 1 hour to produce and started doing $5 profit. I now have close to 30 little Swapclix sites... easily built during the odd spare hour... and each one pulls in between $3 and $8 every day. That means my Swapclix sites are currently bringing in about $150 per day! Can't be bad!

What Makes Swapclix Stand Out?

It goes without saying that there are thousands of programs out there that promise to make you money online. In my opinion the most outstanding feature of Swapclix is the fact that it doesn't require you to sell ANYTHING! All you need to do is get people to click your ads. Swapclix does an excellent job of explaining it all and provides his simple software to do it.

Last, Question....Do You Recommend Swapclix?

The one thing that irritated me slightly about Swapclix is the fact that despite what the sales page promises, it takes longer that 15 minutes to create a Swapclix page. It took me a full day to create my first one, although it does get easier.

Other than that, I think Swapclix is GREAT! Its a dead simple program that provides you with all you need to create money machine after money machine!


