Title: 
Top Article Directories

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Content is king when it comes to the internet. Fresh and relevant content is the key by which websites gain new audiences, keep existing ones and improve their page ranking in search engines.


Keywords:
articles, free articles, article, web content, rss articles


Article Body:
Content is king when it comes to the internet. Fresh and relevant content is the key by which websites gain new audiences, keep existing ones and improve their page ranking in search engines. Practically everything revolves around content.

It is for this reason that web masters and business owners try their best to maximize the effect and benefit they can get from the content on their websites. One of the most effective ways of getting the most out of your content is to submit it to article directories. 

An article directory is a large repository of information that has been collected over time by publishers who accept articles and then serve them. This is not free though in the sense that the submitter will not do anything. As payment for serving the article, the submitter is obligated to host a link to the article directory on his website.   

These article directories are like a storage space for content. Writers of content can bring their articles to the directory and any person who is looking for a particular kind of content can go there and, depending on the rights given to people using content, gets it.

By putting your content in article directories there is bigger chance that your articles will be used by popular websites. This will surely improve your link popularity. This will also make you more visible to more people. As previously mentioned, since content is much sought after in the web, even website publishers would search for good quality content in these directories. As part of the stipulated agreement of most article directories, any website who publish content is required to include the author / content owner’s resource box. This can lead to more publicity and exposure for your website. But the best thing is that it does not cost a cent.


