Title: 
Web 2.0 Babble

Word Count:
380

Summary:
The seeming collapse of cyberspace in 2001 became a point upon which web trends turned. People predicted the end of the cyber era. However, this is all part of a vicious technological cycle of peak trends and shakeouts. It is at this point, that real success is measured. And the development of Web 2.0 is just that.The concept began with the premise that contrary to speculations of web-crashing, the Web or the Internet is more promising and needed than ever. The steady rate of...


Keywords:
Web 2.0, Web 1.0, HTML, beta, personal blogs, cyberspace


Article Body:
The seeming collapse of cyberspace in 2001 became a point upon which web trends turned. People predicted the end of the cyber era. However, this is all part of a vicious technological cycle of peak trends and shakeouts. It is at this point, that real success is measured. And the development of Web 2.0 is just that.The concept began with the premise that contrary to speculations of web-crashing, the Web or the Internet is more promising and needed than ever. The steady rate of development, and coming out of new sites and programs are taken as signs of a stronger Web space. This was taken into consideration by MediaLive International and the O'Reily Team in developing the concept of Web 2.0. However, the passing years have tangled the meaning of the concept. Disagreements about its meaning added to the general mayhem. What exactly is Web 2.0, and how does it differ from the Internet of the past (Web 1.0)?

Their main difference is that Web 2.0 strives to make the web space more personalized and interactive. Whereas Web 1.0 uses static HTML, the 2.0 version offers blog publishing which is highly interactive and dynamic. Web 2. 0 also tries to un-complicate the web experience so even newbies won't feel intimidated by the many links and complicated web designs. As a result, Web 2.0 prioritizes navigability and simplicity in website design. Moreover, sites can be managed by several authors rather than an exclusive group of Internet professionals.

Personal sites are also out of Web 2.0 together with the guessing game that comes with domain names. Personal blogs wherein the owner can post whatever interests him is the "in" thing. Plus, blog readers can comment on whatever the writer wrote, thus, the experience is kept active and dynamic. In addition, SEOs also make it easy to find information and websites. With Web 2.0, cyberspace can live up to its tag as an info superhighway.Other innovations on Web 2.0 version are the use of syndication and folksonomy. With this new applications, directories are no longer needed. Plus, new infoware are in constant beta. Software are easily available in the Internet rather than sold as separate items. Web 2.0 is easier on the user as compared to the older version. This makes Web 2.0 a stronger, steadier, and wider space wherein everyone can find a niche for himself.


