Title: 
Work At Home Online Instead Of At Work

Word Count:
877

Summary:
The information super highway is quickly becoming the revenue super highway. Online, work-at-home opportunities are as common as pigeons in New York. Thousands of people are quitting their jobs, working from home and making money. If you have the motivation and some extra time, you can start own work-at-home online business.

So far this probably sounds like one of those e-mails you always delete advertising one of these so-called online businesses. Don’t worry. I’m not try...


Keywords:
home business,career,career change,online business,business opportunity,work at home


Article Body:
The information super highway is quickly becoming the revenue super highway. Online, work-at-home opportunities are as common as pigeons in New York. Thousands of people are quitting their jobs, working from home and making money. If you have the motivation and some extra time, you can start own work-at-home online business.

So far this probably sounds like one of those e-mails you always delete advertising one of these so-called online businesses. Don’t worry. I’m not trying to sell you anything or even suggesting a specific online business that lets you work at home. This article is to let you know about some of the options. It’s up to you to decide what will work for you.

USE YOUR PRIOR TRAINING OR SKILLS TO FREELANCE

No matter what your expertise is: writing, coding, painting, or contorting your body into odd shapes, there are websites out there designed to help you find jobs in that field that let you work at home. These sites operate in different ways. Some post job opportunities and allow members to bid on them while others post jobs and have respondents contact the clients directly. Some charge membership fees, some don’t. Sites like craigslist.com or writerlance.com are wonderful examples of places to find freelance jobs that will let you work at home. Search engines are your friends when looking for a site that caters to your particular skills set. If you look hard enough, you’re sure to find something.

WRITE ABOUT YOUR FIELD

Enter the wonderful world of blogging. Over the course of your life, you’ve learned a lot, both from success and failure. Maybe you know the best way to filet a salmon or how to count cards so the casino monitors can’t catch you. You’d be surprised how many people are dying to know this information. If you have a halfway decent ability to write, consider starting a blog. If you can get people reading your blog, you can make money, no matter what you write about. The writing is only the bait. It’s what you include with the writing that is the food on your plate.

When you’re writing, think about your audience. Target your articles to a niche group, and then target all of your money making plans to that group. People are more responsive to a targeted campaign than a general one. Don’t worry. I’m getting to how to actually make the money.

HERE IT IS, THE MONEY MAKING PART OF YOUR WORK AT HOME BUSINESS!

There are a number of ways to make money online, both using a blog and not. One way is affiliate marketing. With affiliate marketing, you put a link to someone else’s site somewhere online, and the linked site pays you per click or a commission on every sale or registration. Affiliate marketing is great if you have a blog, especially if you’ve managed to acquire a readership. However, you don’t have to be a blogger to take advantage of affiliate marketing. You can post the links on message boards or forums all over the Internet. Affiliate marketing can be a work at home business by itself.

Another opportunity is actually buying and selling things online. Books have been written about how to make money on e-bay or other auction sites, and for some this might be a viable home business. Others of you might have your own products to sell. Maybe you take nature photography or are in a band or do arts and crafts. Well, sell your photographs or struggling demo CD or those personalized dream-catchers online. Set yourself up a website, either by using a website design program, learning html, or hiring someone to design it for you (if you’re smart, you’ll look to a local college and see if you can find a student looking for experience who would work for a reduced price or as a class project). Once you get your website up, you can do the rest of the marketing and selling work at home in front of your computer.

Online communities like Myspace or Friendster can be excellent tools to help you get your product onto the Internet market. Tapping into Myspace is tapping into millions of people worldwide. So if you’re trying to sell that CD or those photographs, join several of these online communities and market to the other members. Just remember to fo us your profile around your product and business. You’ll be amazed what you can accomplish having a community that size at your fingertips.

HAVE A PLAN

No matter which online work at home opportunity you choose, make sure that you think about it. Do real research into the ones you are using. Find out how other people have succeeded and failed. Make a concrete, long term business plan with short term, achievable goals. The people who wander haphazardly about the Internet, flitting from online business to online business are the ones who don’t make much money. If you take the time to do it right, to make a plan and have a direction, then you can be one of those who work at home and still make money.


