Title: 
Yahoo Search Marketing For Publishers

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Marketing is a source for big income in the Internet. Because of the powers that advertising possesses especially with a highly directed method that the Internet can offer, there is a bigger possibility that Internet ads will meet more success. For example, a person who is looking for a new computer and sees an ad for an online store offering a sale on computers will most likely click on the ad. Very few ads in other media can seek to approximate this demand-specific distribu...


Keywords:
windows, microsoft, business, internet, marketing


Article Body:
Marketing is a source for big income in the Internet. Because of the powers that advertising possesses especially with a highly directed method that the Internet can offer, there is a bigger possibility that Internet ads will meet more success. For example, a person who is looking for a new computer and sees an ad for an online store offering a sale on computers will most likely click on the ad. Very few ads in other media can seek to approximate this demand-specific distribution of ads. This is also the reason why there is a growing influx of companies — both big and small – that are allotting more budget towards Internet advertising. Consequently, more and more websites or publishers are also wanting to get in on the action because the click-throughs will mean big money for them for a very minimal effort.

There are many programs that have emerged online that seek to help web publishers take advantage of the revenue opportunities in advertising.

Yahoo.com, one of the search engine pioneers and a formidable force in the Internet industry, recently announced a new program that would enable web publishers gain more in terms of the benefits of pay for performance or pay-per-click advertising. The program, called Yahoo! Search Marketing, makes advertising on the Internet easier and more manageable to handle.

Yahoo! Search Marketing is based on the technologies and research used by Overture Services, Inc., otherwise known as http://GoTo.com – one of the first search engines that was able to include paid ads in its results. In 2003, Yahoo! acquired Overture and turned it into a fully owned subsidiary tasked to become the backbone for the whole search engine advertising or Pay-for-Performance setup. Overture’s innovative solutions with regards to advertising in search engines has been a great influence on other search engines since they have also come out with their own programs using the principles set by Overture, among them Google’s AdSense.

With the Yahoo! Search Marketing pay-per-performance program, publishers bid on search terms or keywords (this could be words, phrases, or a combination of both). The winning bidder’s web page is then placed in the search engine results for those keywords, with the position being related to the amount that was bid for the said keywords. This function is part of Yahoo! Search Marketing’s Sponsored Search feature, that makes advertising in Yahoo! so much more powerful and effective. The various features included in Sponsored Search allows you to not only control the position of your website in keyword searches, you can also set your own price per click and pay only when people actually click the link to your website.

This is a far more effective way of getting more visitors to go to your web page. First of all, Overture offers a far wider reach compared to other competitors, especially Google. Overture’s reach extends not only to Yahoo but also to AltaVista, CNN and Infospace, among others. The reporting function is also more intuitive now and far more complete in terms of searching for the effectiveness of certain keywords.


