Title: 
Your Visitors Want to be Blown Away!

Word Count:
470

Summary:
Today I stumbled upon a cool music player – it worked so well, it was so easy and intuitive – it simply delivered. In fact it was quite remarkable. Take a look at that word – remarkable!


Keywords:
internet marketing, building wealth, self-help, e-business, affiliate marketing, web design, internet business, success, home business


Article Body:
Today I stumbled upon a cool music player – it worked so well, it was so easy and intuitive – it simply delivered. In fact it was quite remarkable. Take a look at that word – remarkable! Remark-able, yes, I was able to make voluntary, un-coerced positive remarks to my friends. They also liked it and may just tell their friends. What makes one website/product so remarkable? Well simply put when a website solves a problem, meets a need or satisfies a want, it’s likely to be a good site. However a remarkable site does all that so well that it literally over-delivers, surpasses all expectations and makes its visitors feel good just for finding it. In what way is your site, your product remarkable?

Why do you care? Because you want traffic, traffic, traffic. A good site may only convert 2- 5% of its traffic, so the higher your traffic, the more you sell. But other than positive, pervasive word of mouth you will have to work or pay for that traffic. I say work because there are some ways of generating traffic that don’t cost much money – rather they demand time and effort.

One of the best ways to draw people to your site is through original content, articles specifically. There are hundreds of sites dedicated to article postings and within your ‘author bio’ you can post the link back to your site. People go online primarily for content. They are looking for answers, looking for ideas and solutions – sure some people are just bored and browsing, but your potential clients will only exchange their hard earned money for the promise that your product will get them closer to their goal. If you can write articles that show you understand them and that you have a special insight into their interests, they may in return believe in your product enough to give it a try.

You can also write some press releases. A press release is nothing more than a written announcement that discusses something exciting and hopefully newsworthy about your business. Typically it will have contact information so that any member of the press can easily reach you in case they have questions. There are many press release sites that can educate and help you spread your news.

These ideas are just the tip of the marketing strategy iceberg. You ought to find a mentor who can help you do all the above and more. Remember – be remarkable. Let’s give them something to talk about!

Thanks for reading,
Your Rich Cousin
(Author and Business Success Story) Get the free e-book that got me started and helped me start making money at http://www.richcousin.com It's so straight forward and easy to understand AND you will have the support you need to start making a great income online.


