Equipment You Need For Web Videos

So you've decided to make your first web video.  This is a great step, especially if you are making a web video to help promote a product or service.  However, there are several things that you must have in order to make your web video look professional, and entertaining to watch.  Of course, the main items that you must have in order to make a web video are a digital video camera and a computer.  However, the type of camera you have can greatly increase the quality of your video, or it can decrease it.  While there are literally hundreds of different types of digital cameras out there that will record decent video, there are some that are way better than others. 

If you are looking for a camera that will keep your web video looking professional and crisp, as well as easy to upload into your computer, you will want a hard drive camcorder.  These hard drive camcorders will allow you to record stunning images, however, it is how you upload these videos into your computer for editing that makes them so great.  With a hard drive camera, you are able to record video without the need of tapes or DVDs.  This is made possible because the camera records information onto its hard drive.  Once you have recorded everything that you need, you can simply attach the camcorder to your computer, usually through a USB cord, and then your computer begins to upload the videos into its own hard drive.  After you have done this, you can then begin the editing process.

Choosing the right type of camcorder for web videos is extremely important, and if you know that you are going to be filming many web videos, than it is a good idea to invest in a decent camera that has great resolution and user-friendly exporting options. 

Another piece of equipment that you will want to have is a microphone.  While every camcorder comes with a built-in microphone, they will not give you the professional quality that you desire.  You do not have to go out and purchase a $300 microphone in order to get good audio quality; however, you will want to have a microphone that allows you to guard wind and other types of background noises.  Another reason why having a microphone is so important is because it will give you the chance to make videos that are not only pleasing to the eye, but also to the ears.  Did you know that sight and sound makes up for 85% of the information that we absorb around us?  This is why making sure you have a great quality camera and microphone is so important.  

However, if you don't have this last piece of equipment, than you will most likely not be able to post your videos online.  The last piece of mandatory equipment for making web videos is a computer.  Whether you are working with a desktop computer, or laptop, it is very important that your computer can handle the amount of CPU's you are going to be requesting of it.  However, even though you want to have your computer run smoothly, you will also want to ensure that it has enough memory to hold all of the information that you are going to be putting in it.

With many different files that need to be saved, such as massive video files, audio files and the other various types of media that will begin to accumulate onto your computer, you must ensure that you have ample memory.  Many individuals that make web videos usually invest in an external hard drive.  These are great accessories to have, and will keep your computer running smoothly, because the amount of memory needed will be spread out among different hard drives.   
