Learning The Emotional Peaks and Valleys of Web Videos

There are several aspects that make some web videos stand out, and other sink among the millions of videos.  These aspects vary depending on what the video is about, and the overall content of the video.  However, there are some key steps that you must take in order to have a beautiful, professional and entertaining video.  It doesn't matter if you are making a video to discuss a political topic, explain a new product or if you're making a how-to video.  No matter why you're filming, there are several tips that you can follow that will make your video stand out from the millions of others. 

The greatness of most web videos comes from the pre-production phase.  It is here that you will discuss how you want your video to look, what you want to say and why you want to say it.  When you figure out the answers to all of these questions, than you will be on your way to creating a wonderful web video, of course, figuring out how you want your video to look is extremely important.  If you are going for a more polished look, than you will want to spend more time discovering the actual appearance of your video, all the way down from lighting, clothing and camera angles.  

If you want to create a web video that has presence than you want to set a mood.  The success of a web video all depends on what mood it is giving out to its viewers.  If you want a humorous video, than there are steps to creating a video that exudes humor, and likewise with serious web videos.  The planning of how you want to convey your message is extremely important.  Of course, there are several tips that everyone must follow if they want to properly explain their content.

The first of these is making sure that your web video has a story.  In order to understand how to make a story, you must first realize what a story is.  When you think of a great story, there are usually items called peaks and valleys.  

A peak is a strong emotional moment; you can convey this many different ways.  If you are making a video about a product, than the "peak" of the story would be explaining how this product can enhance your life and what it will do for you.  The same concept is true for the "valley" of a video.  In the same product web video, the valleys would be showing how the product works, and also how it is made.

This is a great way to engage the viewers, as well as keep their information.  If you want to make a lasting impact on your web video audience, than you must touch their emotions in one way or another.  It doesn't matter if your web video makes individuals happy, sad, angry or even content, when you are able to create a video that alters the mood or emotion of the viewer, than you have a very successful web video on your hands.  
