Video Players For Your Website

When you have a website, it is very easy to want to have a place to showcase your web videos.  Whether you have videos that further explain your products and services, or if you just want to add funny videos of you and your friends, there is one thing that you must have on your website.  This one thing is a web video player, and you might be surprised that there are many different types of video players that you can choose from.  However, even though there are many different types of video players, which one is perfect for your website?  The answer to this depends on the type of videos that you are playing, and also how you want to play them. 

When you are going to add video to your website, you must first know what format you want your videos to be in.  There are three main video players, all of which come with their own unique format.  These three video players are QuickTime, Real Video and Windows Media.  All three of these video players are perfect for many different types of uses, and they all come with their own specifications.  However, no matter what type of video player you install on your website, you need to make sure that you have the most current version of that player.

This is incredibly important because since technology is ever-evolving, so are the various video players you can use.  Thus, in order to make sure that your video player will work properly with all types of browsers and Internet users, you must have the updated version of any video player. 

However, if you want to use a different type of video player, besides the three mentioned above there are several options that you can choose from.  Many people do not want to go through the trouble of having to install and run a video player by hand.  This is why the entire process is made easier by uploading your video to YouTube or Google Video and then embedding the video into your website.  While this may not give the upmost professionalism that you may require, it is extremely easy and it provides you with an added benefit.

As a webmaster, you want to gain as much traffic to your website as possible.  One great way of doing this is through web videos; however, if you put a video solely on your website, it is possible that no one will see this video unless they discover your site.  This may not be a concern if you already have a loyal viewership to your website, if you do not, than you may want to explore posting your videos on YouTube, or similar sites.  All of these types of sites allow you to copy the URL to the video, and actually embed the video onto your website.

By doing this, you will have the video on your site, but it is also searchable through YouTube.  Thus, if your video becomes popular on YouTube, you will increase the traffic to your website.  By doing this, it is a great way to maximize your time and productivity.   
