Where To Post Your Web Video

So you've spent countless hours thinking, planning, filming and editing your web video.  And finally, the video is ready to be distributed across the Internet.  However, there is only one problem; you aren't quite sure where you should put your video?  There are literally hundreds of websites that allow you to upload your web video; however, not all of these sites will give you the traffic that you want desire.

When you are searching for locations to post your web video, you will want to ensure that they have enough daily traffic to give your video a chance to shine.  Of course, there are plenty of websites that will allow you to have this exposure, they key is putting your video on the right sites. 

For many individuals who make web videos there is only one site that provides them with enough traffic and daily viewers to satisfy their need for page views.  This site is YouTube, and it is quickly becoming one of the top sites for individuals to be entertained, informed and enlightened.  With the ability for literally anyone to post a video, you are able to show the world what you have to say.

However, the key in getting your video seen by YouTube members is by placing keywords that are popularly searched and relate directly to what your video is about.  If you are showing a new product, type in keywords that refer to the product and what it fixes.  It is very simple to gain views from YouTube; however, you must know how to describe your video properly. 

Another website that is quickly becoming popular in posting videos is MySpace.  There have been many individuals who have gained notoriety through this site, and if you are promoting a service or product, than you don't want to miss this website.  The reason why videos do so well on this website is because it allows you to watch videos and then instantly show your friends, because MySpace is more than a video hosting site, it is an extremely popular social networking site.

Thus, if your video truly sheds light on a particular subject, or is very helpful, it won't be long until your video makes its rounds throughout thousands of friend's lists.  Of course, make sure that your video clearly explains its topic and is very helpful, because the last thing that you want to do is mislead an army of MySpacers.  

If you want to post your video on another site that has millions of visitors, than you will want to put your video on Google Video.  This amazing website will allow you to post your video, similar to YouTube, and then let people search for the video either through the main page at Google Video, or through the Google search engine.  Again, this is where putting proper keywords is extremely important, if not pivotal to your videos success.

Remember, if you put time and energy into your video, you will want to also put time and energy into where and how you post your videos.  By doing so, you will most likely experience web video success, and increased traffic to your website.  
