A Basic Introduction to Cat Eye Care

The eyes of your feline friends have often been used on horror films. But if you are a pet owner, you will know that the cat's stare is really the opposite of what's being portrayed on films. That is why you have to know the importance of cat eye care.

I Love You

How do cats say these words? Through their eyes, of course. That is why you shouldn't be frightened by that gaze. How does this work? First, the cat stares at you for a long while. And after that, it blinks its eyes slowly. Some people tag this as a cat's kiss. But you can also say that this is your cat's way of saying that it loves you.

But how do you return the favor? Easy, just follow your cat's lead. Stare at it for a long time and then slowly blink your eyes. See? Cats' eyes can also be used as elements for romantic films.

Not a Third Eye

Don't believe the horror films you see. Cats don't have a third eye. Their eyesight is really sharper than with humans. Instead of a third eye, what cats have is a third eyelid. This is called a nictitating membrane. 

This inner eyelid protects the eyes of the cats from harm and also from dryness. You will notice that when a cat is sick, this membrane will somewhat close. This should alarm you to call the vet or get your cat to them fast.

But this third eyelid will also show once a cat is happy. So you will know what mood your cat is in just by looking at the membrane.

The Pupil

Your feline friend's pupil of the eyes should also be observed. A change in size of one pupil can be an indication of an inflammation. It can also be a sign of a kind of a disorder in neurologic called Horner's Syndrome. Or worse, it can also indicate tumors or injuries in the central nervous system.

The Nocturnal Vision

Do not believe what others say that cats are color blind. They see some. They may not see  as clear as humans do, but it's not like that they cannot see any colors at all. 

Cats can also see clearly from afar. It's very different from people. They find it blurry to be looking at things that are so close to them.

Yes, cats have the nocturnal vision. But they can't see in complete darkness. Do you see the muscles on their iris that surround the pupils of their eyes? They are constructed in a way that it narrows into a vertical split when they are exposed in the bright lights. And it opens fully when the acts are in a quite dim light. 

This feature of the cats may be traced back to their roots. They can use such to hunt for food during the night if they were left out in the jungle or left with no one to care for them.

So forget about the horror flicks. You've already got the thrills. Not it's time to put some effort into cat eye care. Do not let a minor thing worsen. Call the vet immediately when something's amiss. You don't want your cat to lose their sight or even lose their lives. It is always better to be safe than blind.
