Dental Care for Cats

Cat dental care is important to make sure that your pet  enjoys a clean bill of health among other things. Cats also need their teeth to be taken cared of because it can lead them to a lot of other problems concerning their general health. For instance, if your pet cat has periodontal problems, it might not eat well and experience poor health due to lack of the proper nutrients in the body.  That's how important dental care is for your pet cat.

Most cats may suffer from a wide range of dental conditions if they are not properly cared for. That is why it is the responsibility of the pet owner to make sure that his or her pet cat follows a regimen of good dental hygiene. It may be work, but it well serve you and your pet cat well in the long run.

One of the problems that cats experience with their teeth is plaque. Just like humans, cats also have tartar buildup in their own teeth called plaque. This is due t the many types of food that cats eat with some of the substances accumulating in their teeth that may further lead to the tartar buildup. If the accumulation of plaque continues on, it may lead  to gum problems and eventually the loss of your pet cat's teeth.

Not all cats have the same experience with plaque. Their seems to be some cats who are prone to tartar buildup while there are others that seem to do well even with little dental care. Some cats may require regular teeth cleaning in order to remove the plaque build up from their teeth. Plaque is a whitish yellow deposit that gradually develops on teeth.

In cats, the plaque usually develops in the exterior face of the upper teeth. If left to accumulate, plaque can cause gum problems in cats. This can be seen in reddened gum lines which can indicate that the plaque is already causing some irritation.

In order to prevent the over build up of plaque in your pet cat's teeth, an annual teeth cleaning may be suggested. Veterinarians usually put the cats under general anesthesia to have their teeth cleaned. But this service can come at some considerable cost. The next best thing would be to have your pet cat's teeth cleaned at home. 

It might take some getting used to when trying to clean your pet cat's teeth at home. Cats do not usually like to have their teeth cleaned. In order to do this, you might need to have your pet cat placed in a bath towel straitjacket as well as a helper.

A child size tooth brush would work well when cleaning your pet cat's teeth. You can also make use of some edible toothpaste available in pet stores to make the task easier for you. Sometimes cats can get used to tooth brushing if done on a weekly basis.

Sometimes when you try to observe some pet cat dental care, you might find that your pet cat has a smelly breath. This can be caused by two things. One may occur when a young cat is teething. At around six months of age, cats start to lose their baby teeth with the permanent ones replacing them.

The odor on the cat's breath may be due to the teeth changing process. The odor on your cat's breath will eventually subside once the teeth come in.
