Cat Skin Care Dandruff

Cat dandruff is common among diabetic cats. A study shows that happens in 1 in 200 cats have what is known as diabetes mellitus (DM) and if you want your pet to get better, here are some things you can do. 

The cause of this problem is associated with poor nutrition. So, instead of buying one of those generic brands of cat food, maybe you should change it and go for one of those that are of good quality even if it may cost a little more. 

You can also give food supplements that contain fish oil which have proven to correct the dandruff problem.  This may also come from canned tuna since it is rich in Omega 43 fatty acids that will improve their hair in about a week. 

The symptoms that will tell you if your cat has a skin care problem like dandruff includes an increase in their appetite, excessive thirst or urination, dehydration, depression, muscle wasting, lethargy, weight loss and an umkempt hair coat that is a direct result of poor grooming.  It gets worse when the cat displays weak rear legs. 

Aside from a cat being diabetic, other risk factors include certain steroid injections, neutering and old age. The cold weather could be another cause since it dries the cat’s skin. If your hunch is correct, you can fix this problem by buying a topical and oral treatment that is designed to treat dry skin. 

Aside from dandruff, owners should also worry about allergies as this also causes skin problems among cats. This may come from cleaners, pollen, food and other sources and since it is hard to pinpoint the exact cause, owners are advised to use only natural care products in cleaning the home. 

The cat should also be confined indoors to prevent them from roaming outside. Studies have shown that sunburn kills the top layer of their skin causing it to dry and flake off. Repeated sunburn may result to skin cancer so if you decide to let them go out, this should be done before 10 in the morning and after 4 in the afternoon. 

During the winter, the cat should not be allowed to sleep near the fireplace as this also dries out their skin quickly. To keep them warm during the cold months, you should invest in a good humidifier. 

The cat may also be infested with fleas and ticks. You can check the cat’s skin routinely to pull them out and use powder to flush the rest out. The hair should also be combed so this does not happen again. 

If the cat’s skin care problem continues, it is best to bring it directly to the vet as over the counter medications and parasite treatments which you have tried are not good enough to do the trick. Some of the symptoms associated with dandruff could be something else like a skin disorder and one of them is Cheyletiella which requires the help of a professional.

Cat skin care problems like dandruff must be taken cared off immediately before it gets worse.  Proper hygiene, diet and grooming are the best ways to keep it away and if household remedies don’t work, you better get help so the exact cause can be determined and the proper treatment can be given. 
