Cat Care & Health

Owning a pet has certain responsibilities. You have to feed and groom it as well as keep them away from various diseases. This is what cat care and health is all about and by doing it correctly, they can live for 10 years or even longer. 

Cat vaccinations are the most effective means of fighting a disease. This also prevents the cat from ever becoming a carrier.  Some of the common vaccinations given are for cat flu, feline leukemia or FeLV, Feline Chlamydophilosis and Feline Infectious Enteritis or FIE. 

If your cat is given a vaccination, be aware that they may experience some side effects. This goes away shortly even if they develop flu like symptoms or fatigue in the next dew days. In rare cases, the cat may develop cancer where the injection has inserted that may develop in weeks, months or even years.

Cats just like humans experience allergies. This may come from pollen, dust, disinfectants and others. If you notice your cat experiencing any symptoms, you should stop using such products, keep them away from plants and make sure your house is clean. 

Another problem that your cat may face is fleas and ticks. You will know they are there if they scratch more often than usual. You should check around the neck to see if there are any black dots using a special flea comb to look deeper into the fur. 

Treatment against fleas and ticks is done by dabbing a small amount of liquid on to the back of their necks once a month. As for those that are already present, you can pluck them out one by one using a pair of tweezers or applying Vaseline over the affected area. Always wear rubber gloves when you are doing this so the bacterium does not transfer to your fingers.  

Unlike fleas and ticks that you can see, cat worms are inside their digestive system. There are three of them namely hookworms, roundworms and tapeworms. If left untreated, they will have an upset stomach that at times can be fatal. 

The best way to prevent this from happening is to give them worming tablets annually. But if it is already there, then you have to get a prescribed medicine from your doctor. Another option is to use a tick remover spray that is available in pet stores. You will notice a wound when the tick or flea is removed. This must be treated by bathing the area with salt water afterwards so no infection develops.

Cats can cause damage and hurt people. You can prevent this from happening by providing them a scratch pad to play with and trimming their nails on a regular basis.

Ever heard the line curiosity killed the cat? Well this also happens if they roam freely around your house. To prevent this from happening, make sure all cabinets are closed, the windows are shut, medicine and rat poison are hidden. You must never given them chocolate as a snack as this can be fatal. 
 
Proper cat care is the most effective means of keeping them healthy. Studies have shown that cats that are kept indoors and loved by their owners live 5 times longer than those you see on the street. Since you decided to own one, you should cherish it. 
