Deworming Multiple Cats

	Ah yes, everyone's favorite pet chore. One day you clean your cats' box and 
discover little white chunks of what appear to be cooked spaghetti lodged in the feces, 
that is, until one starts to move. You know then that it's time to deworm your cats. If your 
veterinarian says that your cat doesn't have anything particularly tough or nasty then he 
or she may recommend a regular schedule using commercial dewormers that can be 
found readily in any pet store. Your veterinarian even may have a good general purpose 
dewormer on hand for your use. Fortunately, there is a wide range of deworming 
medicines available on the market. Most are liquid or pill form.

	If you have only one cat, your task is relatively simple. Choose a dewormer that 
your cat will find acceptable if not palatable. Many liquid dewormers claim to be very 
tasty to cats. Unfortunately, many cats would vigorously disagree with that assessment. 
In such a case, if you have access to a pill form of dewormer that your cat is willing to 
swallow, you're in luck. If your cat won't swallow pills without major mayhem breaking 
out and turns his nose up at every liquid dewormer you try, then you have a problem. If 
you have more than one cat, it can become even more of an issue. If your cats will 
happily take whatever you offer, then the only thing you have to worry about is keeping 
the greedy guts from getting more than they should.  But, If each of them has a different 
idea as to what is acceptable (or not) for deworming medicine, then you have a major 
headache.

	Rather than cater to each cats whims and maintain a veterinary pharmacy worth of 
dewormers in your house or routinely running your finicky feline into the veterinarian 
every to he needs deworming, you might try a different route. You will need a liquid 
deworming medicine and a syringe. Syringes are readily available in the livestock 
medication section of farm supply stores. You only need the section with the barrel and 
plunger. No needles are needed or should even be used. Syringes in farm supply stores 
usually offer the two sections separately. Select one of smaller size. Your cat won't need 
large amounts of medicine at any one time.

	Measure out the proper amount of dewormer for your cat into a measuring cup. A 
measuring cup usually comes in the package with a liquid dewormer. Take one of your 
syringes and place the open end (where the needle would normally attach) into the 
measuring cup and draw the medicine up into the barrel by pulling upward on the 
plunger. Try to get it all at one time. You could do this task by increments but trying to 
manage a squirming cat while refilling a syringe really is more difficult than it is worth. 
Now restrain your cat gently and situate yourself so that you can hold the cat and use the 
syringe easily. It could require some experimentation to work out a suitable position for 
the both of you. . If you keep one hand underneath the cats head and cradle his chin it 
will make this part of the task go more smoothly. Slide the end of the syringe a little bit 
into your cat's mouth and slowly depress the plunger This will empty the medicine into 
your cat's mouth slowly enough that he can readily swallow it without choking. Repeat 
for each cat.
	
	Naturally, your cat will not be particularly pleased with this method. He may 
object rather strenuously. With repetition, however, you will become much smoother 
with the task. You don't need to rush during this task. Take your time to discover what 
will work best for you and your cats. Your cats will become more accustomed to it 
despite themselves. This method will ensure that each cat, even your most finicky, gets 
the proper amount of medicine he needs.  And that, of course, is the whole reason for the 
entire exercise. 
