Cat Care in your House

Cats are playful animals. If you are planning to get one, you should know the basics about house cat care. 

The moment the cat is brought into the house, you should give it his or her own room for the time being with food, water and a bed. If it has not yet been toilet trained, you should start teaching it so there are no stains in the carpet. 

Teaching the cat how to use the litter box can initially be done by carrying it to the box when nature calls. When you see the cat is able to do it, praise and reward your pet so they know that this is the right to do. 

The exact dimension of the litter box depends on the size of the cat. This must be cleaned naturally using soap and water not disinfectant. 

If ever they do something wrong like climb up on the table or scratch the furniture, you must never scold them as they are very sensitive animals. You can enforce discipline without causing any harm by squirting water on their face. 

There must be food and water at all times. The feeding dish and bowl should be made either of plastic or aluminum and cleaned. Any unfinished food must be disposed of properly. 

Their diet must come from high quality cat food and although this may be more expensive than the other brands, you know that it has the right vitamins and minerals to keep them healthy. Aside from food, you can also give them supplements. One example is Omega 3 fatty acids that are good for their nutrition. 

For those that have other pets in the house, you should give some time for the two pets to be acquainted with each other. If you have a dog, make sure it is kept on its leash first. If you have another cat, be ready to break off a fight since this normally happens. 

House rules must be set regarding what the cat can and cannot do in the home. For instance, you can decide whether or not the cat may be allowed out of the house even if the experts have said that they must always be confined indoors. There are other issues which you have to discuss among yourselves. 

You must also provide a scratching pad so it can play around without causing any damage to your furniture. This should be 3 feet in height and placed either near the furniture or their bed. When their nails get too sharp, you better trim it so they don’t hurt you or themselves.  

One of the most important things about cat care is proper grooming. You can bathe the cat by wetting their head and tail with shampoo. Never lather their ears or eyes and dry them using a clean towel. Brush the hair lightly and apply combing powder so it never gets tangled with each other.

Lastly, bring your cat to the vet regularly and when you see something new in their behavior as quick thinking could prevent a possible sickness from getting worse. If you don’t know any, get a recommendation from one of your neighbors. 

House cat care is challenging but rewarding. You just have to put in the time and effort when you decide to bring a pet into your home. 
