How Important is Cat Teeth Care

You do not have to wait for the month of February to remember about cat teeth care. It is a part of your responsibility as a pet owner to be mindful about cleaning your pet's oral hygiene.

Why February, you may ask. The American Veterinary Medicine Association or the AVMA and the American Veterinary Dental Society or the AVDS join forces each February to give this month a different meaning. Yes, it is still about love. But now it is love for pets and their teeth. 

These two groups tagged what used to be the love month as the Pet Dental Health Month. They both aim and do steps in educating pet owners like you about how to care for the dental needs of your pets every day.

But these groups know how important this is for the pets and their owners. They actually would want all those who are caring for any pets to consider each month as the dental health month for pets.

Did You Know?

Did you know that about 85 percent of the old pets have dental diseases? Did you know that this is one of the most common causes of health related problems with cats? And did you know that if you didn't pay any attention to those periodontal diseases, more problems may surface? 

If such conditions will not be properly treated, such may cause harmful elements like bacteria from the dental cavity spreading all through the bloodstream. And as a result, this will infect other major organs that will cause more complications that may lead to your pet's death.

How to Care for the Teeth

As a pet owner, you have the responsibility to clean your cat's teeth every day. This could be tasking if you will imagine about it. But you can use some help from other household members to open kitty's mouth for you while you complete the task.

Your feline friend may not like the process at first. But it is for its own good. For this reason, you both need to get accustomed with it. You can try toothpaste that has a fish flavor for the experience to be more fun for your cat.

You must also have a regular appointment with your vet regarding the dental health of your pets. Aside from this, you have to check on your cat's teeth as well as the gums every day to see if they are clean. If you want, you can also floss your cat's teeth.

You have already provided a lot for your cat. Don't let it all go to waste. Take care of your cat's teeth as soon as you have them. You don't want further complications as they grow old. If you have experienced what it's like to experience pain because of your teeth. You can only imagine how a helpless cat can cope with it.

If you will not do something about it soon, your cats will be prone to diseases like in the heart, even their lungs and liver, as well as the kidneys.

Be mindful about cat teeth care. Just following the abovementioned simple rules will keep your cats smiling all the way into adult age. By doing the necessary actions, you are preparing your pets to have an easy life as it grows older. 
