Long Term Cat Care

A cat can be a pet an also a friend. If you want the feline to be with you for the long term, it pays to know proper cat care. 

Before getting one from the pet store or animal shelter, be sure to have a bed, dish bowl and litter box ready. By giving them their own space, they will be able to adapt to the new environment that you have made for them.

Since the cat will explore around the house and might even go out, it is advisable to put a collar around its neck which has your name, contact number and address so in case it wanders off, one of your neighbors will be able to return it. 

Another option is to insert a microchip under their skin. Putting this device into the feline is very similar to giving it a vaccination. Aside from using it merely to identify the cat if it gets lost, it also has another purpose which is a flea deterrent because it has a chemical that helps keep these parasites away. 

You must only buy high quality cat food for your pet. These should be rich in protein that may come from meat, fish or poultry. These are available either in canned or Kibble and most nutritionists agree that a combination of both is ideal so they do not develop food addictions. 

One thing you must never feed a cat is chocolate because it has certain chemicals that could be fatal for them.  

Aside from food, you can also give your cat food supplements such as Omega 3 Fatty Acids and Taurine which is an essential amino acid. 

Don’t forget to bring your cat at least once a year to the vet. This is to check on your pet’s state of health as well as giving the annual vaccinations. You should know that the older the cat gets, such visits to the vet should be done every 6 months because they also get old. 

If there is a problem or suspect that something is wrong, drive down to the vet even if you don’t have an appointment. Remember that when it comes to dealing with felines, this professional is the specialist.

Cats have the ability to clean themselves but they can only do so much on their own. While they are young, they have to get used to the idea of giving them a bath. Once dried, their hairs should be combed so it does not get tangled. 

You should trim their nails so they don’t scratch too hard and hurt themselves or even you. Since they love to scratch and this may cause damage to your furniture, make sure to also have a scratch pad nearby positioned by their bed or the furniture. 

House cats should always be kept indoors. This will prevent them from coming into contact with other animals that may be carriers of infectious diseases that may be fatal to them. If ever you go out, make sure all the windows and doors are locked. 

Long term cat care may let it live for ten years or more. If others are able to do it, so can you. Just remember that it is a responsibility that you got yourself into so make the most of it. 
