Cat Breeds
Maine Coon Cat

	Are you looking to get a new cat soon? Great! You may want to consider a 
purebred cat. There are many breeds that can be found in this country, each with its own 
characteristic appearance and temperament and history. Think carefully about what you 
would characteristics you would like to see in your new companion. Perhaps you would 
care to consider:

Maine Coon Cat

	The ancestry of these big, hearty cats from New England is unknown. Most likely 
they came across from Europe with the early settlers as working cats on the ships. Some 
of these long haired ship cats apparently decided to disembark in the new world and 
made their home there along with the new colonists. Winter in New England can be 
extremely tough. Only the strongest survived those early winters, human or cat. Once 
they settled in to their new homes, these long haired cats began to thrive. The Shaggies, 
as they were called then, became a familiar part of colonial life throughout New England.

      The Maine Coon Cat is a big, strong, intelligent cat. They are also very loving and 
devoted family members and remain very playful into old age. Maine Coon Cats do not 
seem to make snap decisions about people. They remain somewhat reserved when they 
first meet new people or move into a new home. Once they have made their decision, 
they become affectionate and devoted companions. Maine Coon Cats also have an 
unusual fascination with water. They are known to dabble in their water dishes or play in 
showers before the water has all run out. Once in a while, a cat will actually go 
swimming.
 
      Maine Coon Cats are gentle giants in the cat world. Males can top out at 20lbs 
while females can reach 12 lbs. The size difference between the sexes is unusually large. 
The females are no pushovers despite their lack of size. They feel they are every bit as 
strong as the males and aren't afraid to prove it. These ladies can be quite feisty. Maine 
Coon Cats have broad chests with well muscled bodies and medium length legs. This 
breed does not reach full maturity until they are four years old. This cat has an easy going 
and affectionate temperament. The smallest part of this cat is its voice. Maine Coon Cats 
speak with a high squeaky voice that seems entirely incongruous coming from such a 
massive cat. These cats chirp, cheep, chortle, and trill as well as meow. It's quite an eye 
opener to hear a Maine Coon Cat speak.
      
       These cats have thick semi long coats which are all-weather and water resistant 
as well. Fortunately, the Main Coon Cats coat does not tangle easily. The texture is 
surprisingly silky. The most common coat color pattern is tabby though they can come in 
a wide variety of colors and patterns.
      
	The Main Coon Cat is a breed whose cheerful ways continue to charm people 
every day. Give the Main Coon Cat a closer look. The breed is hardy and affectionate.  
This cats' laid back temperament would make an outstanding family pet.  This cat may be 
exactly what you are looking for in a new companion. 
