Cat Breeds
Persian

	Are you looking to get a new cat soon? Great! You may want to consider a 
purebred cat. There are many breeds that can be found in this country, each with its own 
characteristic appearance and temperament and history. Think carefully about what you 
would characteristics you would like to see in your new companion. Perhaps you would 
care to consider:

The Persian

	A very ancient breed of cat, the Persian was first mentioned in hieroglyphs 
beginning at approximately 1684 B.C. The Persians' beginnings have long been lost to 
time. The Persian was so named for their ostensible country of origin, the great ancient 
empire of Persia which was located in around the modern country of Iran. The first 
known Persian cats to arrive in Europe were brought by an Italian traveler, Pietro della 
Valle, in the 1600s. Persians became very popular throughout Europe. At the first modern 
cat show, held in 1871 in London at the Crystal Palace, Persians were a featured breed. 
The show at the Crystal Palace, and the others that followed, served only to increase the 
popularity of this already very popular breed. Queen Victoria herself adored blue 
Persians.

      Persians are a wildly popular breed. They are, in fact, the most popular breed of 
cat on the planet. Their long flowing coats and sweet faces immediately endear them to 
so many people. Their personalities are gentle and affectionate. They are strong creatures 
of habit and are most comfortable in secure environments with regular routines, but with 
gentle support, they can adapt to a more lively environment if need be. Persians are soft 
spoken cats with pleasant and melodious voices that many people enjoy. Their expressive 
eyes charm people of all ages. Persians are built long and low with sturdy short legs. 
They are not big jumpers but do enjoy lounging in their favorite strategic locations. They 
can often be found beautifully draped on a sunny windowsill posing for sheer pleasure of 
it. Friendly cats, Persians will seek attention, but not demand it. Persians have long been 
a fixture in artwork. Their great beauty has earned them frequent roles in commercial 
advertising and in movies.

	Persians need to be kept indoors, away from dirt and burrs that could knot up 
those beautiful coats. Daily combing is a must to prevent snarled fur and hairballs. Those 
huge beautiful eyes do tend to do a bit of tearing. Washing a Persians' face daily will take 
care of tearing. A well bred Persian can be hearty and healthy. When properly cared for, 
Persians can live to be 15 years old. 

      The Persian is an extraordinarily beautiful breed and comes in an amazing variety 
of colors and patterns. The registry divides their colors into seven categories: solid color 
division, silver and gold division, shaded and smoke division, tabby division, particolor 
division, bicolor division and Himalayan division. Each color and pattern exquisitely 
beautiful.

	The Persian cat is an ancient breed whose winning ways continue to charm people 
to this day. They appear in a rainbow of colors and patterns, one of which is sure to catch 
your eye. Give the Persian cat a closer look. The Persian has long been a gentle, loving, 
loyal companion to many people over the years. This cat may be exactly what you are 
looking for in a new companion. 
