Cat Breeds
American Shorthair

	Are you looking to get a new cat soon? Great! You may want to consider a 
purebred cat. There are many breeds that can be found in this country, each with its own 
characteristic appearance and temperament and history. Think carefully about what you 
would characteristics you would like to see in your new companion. Perhaps you would 
care to consider:

The American Shorthair

	Originally known as the Domestic Shorthair, the American Shorthair is truly 
America's cat. The Shorthairs' ancestors came to America from Europe with the early 
settlers. Records show that the famous Mayflower had several working cats aboard her on 
her famous voyage to the new world. Also, written records exist that mention the cats that 
lived with the colonists at Jamestown in 1609. These cats were working members of their 
communities and valued for their contributions to the well being of these early 
settlements. Ever since that time, this breed has patrolled farms and stables for mice and 
rats all over the country. 

      In the early 20th century, foreign breeds arriving on these shores threatened the 
distinctive look and temperament of the native shorthair breed. Admirers of the American 
Shorthair began acquire the finest examples of the breed that they could find. They set up 
selective breeding programs based on these individuals to preserve this beautiful and 
unique breed of cats. The breed was officially recognized by the Cat Fancier's 
Association (CFA) in 1904 as one of its first five breeds. The very first registered 
American Shorthair was named Buster Brown. In 1966 the breed registry changed its 
name from Domestic Shorthair to American Shorthair. The move was made to accentuate 
it all American heritage and to distinguish it from other shorthair breeds.

      	The American Shorthair is famous for its amiable temperament. Its' quiet 
disposition toward children and dogs has made the American Shorthair a family favorite 
for many years. This breed tends to be of moderate to large size, healthy, strong , well 
balance and long-lived. They are independent, lively, playful cats that retain their 
playfulness well into old age. The American Shorthair routinely is found in published 
lists of the top ten most popular cats.

      The American shorthair is an extraordinarily beautiful breed and comes in over 
eighty recognized colors and patterns: solid colors, shaded colors, smokes, tabbies, 
particolors and bicolors. One of the most beautiful color patterns is the silver tabby. The 
silver tabby has dense black tiger type stripes over a clear silvery background. It way or 
may not have white markings as well. So popular is this color pattern that more than one 
third of all American Shorthairs are now silver tabby. This color is so striking that cats 
that have it are often used in advertising or in the movies. The second most popular color 
for American Shorthairs is brown tabby. A brown tabby has black tiger markings over a 
brown background.

	The American Shorthair cat is a sturdy American original with winning ways and 
comes in a rainbow of colors and patterns. Give the American Shorthair a closer look. A 
gentle, loving, loyal companion and also a fierce mouse hunter, the American Shorthair 
can and has filled many roles over the years. This cat may be exactly what you are 
looking for in a new companion. 
