Spotted Cat Breeds

	Are you looking to get a new cat soon? Great! You may want to consider a 
purebred cat. There are many breeds that can be found in this country, each with its own 
characteristic appearance and temperament and history. Think carefully about what you 
would characteristics you would like to see in your new companion. Perhaps you would 
care to consider something a little bit different:

Ocicat

	The Ocicat were named after the Ocelot wildcat that is found from southwestern 
Texas south to northern Argentina. The Ocicat, however, does not have any Ocelot blood 
in them. They are entirely domestic bred. The first Ocicat was produced as a happy 
accident in the early 1960s by breeder Virginia Daly who was was trying to breed a 
Siamese cat with Abyssinian colored points. She did reach her goal, but in her second 
litter she found a cream colored male with golden spots and copper colored eyes. She 
named him Tonga. Her daughter called him Ocicat because he reminded her of a baby 
Ocelot. Tonga was later sold as a pet and neutered.

      Fortunately, the same breeding pair that produced Tonga later produced a second 
spotted male. His name was Dalai Dotson who became the foundation for the Ocicat 
breed. The first Ocicat, Tonga, was exhibited at a cat show in 1965. The Ocicat registry 
was established in 1966. The Ocicat was so striking and unique that other breeders were 
attracted and joined Daley in establishing this beautiful breed. The breeder continued to 
focus ion Abyssinians and Siamese for their foundation stock, but some American 
Shorthair was introduced as well. The American Shorthair bloodlines introduced a 
beautiful silver color to the ocicat.
 
      Ocicats are very lively and intelligent. They are also great talkers. They are loyal 
and loving and tend to bond strongly to one person. Ocicats are very intelligent and will 
make up new tricks to entertain themselves. Most of them know how to fetch. Ocicats are 
another breed that doesn't like to be alone for long. Again, a feline companion will be 
ideal for keeping your Ocicat happy.
      
      The Bengal
      
      Unlike the Ocicat, the Bengal has wild ancestry. The Bengal was produced by 
crossing the Asian Leopard Cat, a small wildcat with domestic shorthaired cats. The 
name Bengal was derived from the Asian Leopard Cats Latin name, Felis bengalensis. It 
took the original breeder Jean Mill, several generations to produce a beautiful cat with 
domestic and predictable personalities. 
      
      In 1985 Mill showed her cats for the first time. There was some controversy over 
the new cats. Some people felt it was unwise cross wild cats with domestics since many 
wildcats are threatened species. Most people, however, were very taken with the beautiful 
new cats. Mill was able to recreate a number of new Bengal breeders.
      
      The modern Bengal is a wildly beautiful cat with an affectionate personality and 
great energy. Bengals form strong bonds with their owners and become faithful and 
affectionate companions for life. Bengals love to climb and will do so given any 
opportunity. You will routinely find them on top of bookcases, doors and dressers. They 
are very curious and will rearrange the contents of any drawer the find open. Bengals are 
playful well into old age and will pounce an anything that moves. From their Asian 
ancestors, these cats inherited a love of water. Some will even join you for a swim in the 
pool or hot tub. 
      
	These very unusual cats are not everyone's' cup of tea. Give these very different 
cats a closer look. Their unique appearances and lively personalities might just make a 
great pet.  These cats may be exactly what you are looking for in a new companion. 
