The Importance of Understanding Your Cat

Are you a new cat owner?  If so, there will come a point in time when your cat becomes “just like one of the kids.”  However, until that time arrives, it is up to you to understand your cat and the small signals that he or she may be sharing with you.

As important as it is to hear that it will be your responsibility to understand your cat and decipher the signals that he or she may be sending you, you may be wondering why.  Many pet owners often respond with something like “what the heck?”  If you are a new pet owner or a first-time pet owner, you may not understand just how much your cat relies and depends on you.  

As for why it is important to understand your cat, doing so can be important to his or her health.  We humans are able to speak and seek medical attention when we develop a cold or suffer a debilitating injury.  Pets, on the other hand, cannot do so.  Just because your cat doesn’t outright tell you that she needs to go the vet, it doesn’t mean that a visit isn’t in order.

If you suspect that your cat is suffering from a medical problem, whether it be an injury or an illness, you will want to seek professional help right away.  Schedule a visit with your veterinarian.  The sooner you do so, the quicker you can understand what is bothering your cat.  If you must make your cat’s appointment an emergency appointment, especially if he or she seems to be suffering.

Speaking of suffering, many new cat owners wonder how they can tell when their pet is feeling ill or has suffered an injury that may not be noticeable to the human eye.  Whether you have only had your cat a week or five years, you should already start to notice habits that he or she has.  These habits may include greeting you when you walk into a room or sleeping in the same spot.  If these habits change, it may be due to an injury that is difficult to see or a medical illness.

In addition to knowing when your cat may be ill, understanding when your cat is hungry is also important.  Some pet owners will always leave food out for their pets.  This is doable; however, there may be some negative consequences.  For instance, your cat may eat too much and develop an obesity problem.  Bug and other rodents can be attracted to your pet’s food, especially wet canned food, regardless of how clean your home is.

For that reason, look for signs that your cat may be hungry.  Many cats will approach their empty food dish and start to cry out.  Others, may take steps to get human food or the food of other pets in the home.  Of course, you also don’t have to let it get that far.  Creating a set feeding schedule for your cat has a number of benefits.  

Despite the fact that deciphering your cats every move may seem like an impossible task, it really isn’t.  Although your cat will have his or her own distinctive attitudes, you may be surprised just how similar cats occasionally react like humans.  When upset or frustrated, your cat may retreat to their own special spot.  When hungry, your cat may call out for food.  When your cat is excited, you should be able to tell right away, as he or she will likely be more active than usual.

The above mentioned reasons are just a few of the many why it is important for you to learn how to understand your cat.  If you are looking for helpful tips, consider speaking to your veterinarian.  There are also multiple book and online websites that are designed to help new pet owners develop a close and healthy relationship with their cats.  Having an attentive and close relationship with your cat is the first step in understanding their wants and needs.

PPPPP

Word Count 667
