Tips for Understanding Your Cat

Are you a new pet owner?  If you have just purchased a new cat, you may be excited!  After all, you should be.  Owning a cat is a huge responsibility, but it is one that is filled with many great rewards.  There is nothing better than seeing love and compassion in the eyes of your cat.  In fact, that it not all that you will see.  

When you and your new pet get to know each other more, you will begin to notice many traits and characteristics that your cat displays.  After all, all living animals have their own personalities.  In no time at all, you will be understanding your cat, just like he or she is one of the kids or another human being.

As nice as it is to hear that you may be understanding your pet in no time at all, you may be looking for more information.  After all, you may be curious as to how you will understand your pet.  No, you will not receive a human response when talking to your pet, but there are other signals that your pet may send you.  To be the best pet owner possible and to provide your cat with proper care, it is important for you notice and take action when these signals are displayed.

So, what signal should you look for when understanding your cat?  For starters, do you know when your cat may be ready to fight?  Whether your cat is ready to attack you, another person in your home, or another pet, this is a sign that you need to be on the lookout for.  Although cats are almost always safe and cuddly, some do have anger issues.  If your cat has his head down and is in a crouching position, he may be ready to pounce.  Many cats will also try to hide behind an object, such as a couch so that they cannot be seen.

Cats, like humans, and other pets can develop a wide array of emotions, including anger.  Even if your cat does not pounce or attack, he or she may still be upset.  Many cats will move their tail in a horizontal pattern.  In fact, it will seem like your cat is lashing his or her tail back and forth, not just moving it.  Some cats will also deal with their anger by hiding or retreating to an area that they feel comfortable or safe in.

Although some cats will pounce with the intent to play, many other cats will display other playful signals.  A happy cat and one who wants to play is usually very active.  Your cat, when happy and excited, may always be on the move.  He or she may be extra cuddly with you, hoping that you will provide them with extra attention and playtime.  Another sign of a happy and excited cat is one whose head, tail, and ears are straight up.

As previously stated, the reward of being a cat owner is seeing love and compassion in your cat’s eyes.  What you may not realize is that this is actually something that you may be able to notice.  It has been said that cats who squint when looking at you, are showing you that they do love and care for you.  It has also been said that biting and licking are additional ways that cats show love and affection.  

The above mentioned examples, are just a few of the many that you will want to be on lookout for when trying to understand your cat.  As a reminder, the process of understanding your cat isn’t one that should be rushed.  All you need to do is give your cat the proper amount of love and attention, watch their reactions, and make note of any habits your new friend may develop.  In time, you will and your new pet will soon be understanding each other.  

PPPPP

Word Count 651
