Cat Breeds
Turkish Angora

	Are you looking to get a new cat soon? Great! You may want to consider a 
purebred cat. There are many breeds that can be found in this country, each with its own 
characteristic appearance and temperament and history. Think carefully about what you 
would characteristics you would like to see in your new companion. Perhaps you would 
care to consider:

Turkish Angora

	Beautiful and rare, the elegant Turkish Angora is considered a national treasure in 
its home country of Turkey. The breeds name came from the former Turkish capital, 
Angora, now called Ankara. The Turkish Angora probably originated in the mountains of 
Turkey. This graceful breed may have descended from the Manul cat, which was a small 
cat domesticated by the Tartars. Turkish Angoras can be traced back in European 
writings to 16th century France. The breed was enormously popular with French and 
British nobility in the 1700s. Marie Antoinette and King Louis XVI as well as King Louis 
XV are said to have been Turkish Angora fanciers. The breed almost disappeared entirely 
in the early 1900s due to indiscriminate interbreeding with Persians to the point where 
nearly all longhaired cats were referred to as Angoras. Fortunately, Turkish breeders 
continued controlled breeding of this lovely breed. In the 1950s, American servicemen 
discovered Turkish Angoras at the Ankara Zoo. These servicemen reintroduced the 
Turkish Angora to cat fanciers everywhere. All modern Turkish Angoras must trace their 
ancestry to Turkey. 

      Turkish Angoras, though highly prized, are unfortunately rather rare even in their 
lands of origin. They are loving, playful and very adaptable to many situations. This 
breed is very friendly and outgoing. They coexist well with dogs. Turkish Angoras are 
often the first to greet guests and are known to stick around to visit with them. Turkish 
Angoras make outstanding family pets. This breed is also famous for its tendency to bond 
strongly with one special human. Once that bond is formed, this cat will be an always 
present, always affectionate companion. 
 
      Elegant and graceful, this breeds' most distinguishing feature is its beautiful coat. 
White is the most popular color but many others colors are available and are becoming 
more popular with time. The Turkish Angoras long haired, single layered coat is soft and 
silky. It rarely mats or tangles and so requires little grooming. Most owners do use a fine 
toothed comb their cats a couple times a week anyway, to get rid of loose hair and reduce 
the likelihood of hairballs. Being a natural breed, they are also very healthy cats. 
      
       These cats are highly intelligent and need to have lots of interaction with their 
people or they tend to get bored. It's a good idea to have another lively feline playmate 
for The Turkish Angora to play with when you are away. Otherwise, she is liable to get 
into mischief.

	The Turkish Angora cat is a breed whose cheerful ways continue to charm people 
every day. Give the Turkish Angora cat a closer look. This breed is considered the most 
outgoing and affectionate of all cat breeds.  This cats' grace and energy would make it a 
lovely and entertaining pet. This cat may be exactly what you are looking for in a new 
companion. 
