What You Need to Know about Persian Cat Care

It may be fluffy but the way to do Persian cat care must also be according to how you do it with other cats. You have to perform the tasks with love and affection, just like being a parent to their child.

Where It Came From
The history of where this breed of cats came from is varied depending on who you are talking to. But most would say that the name has something to do with its origin. It is said that some of the early Persian cats do actually came from Persia. This country is now known as Iran.

These cats are also believed to have originated from Turkey, as well as England in the time of Crusades. This breed held a special spot in the royalties of England and even to the king of Persia during the early days. Such type of people valued the possession of Persian cats.

Maybe that's the reason why until now, Persian cats seem to walk the walk. They look like they have something classy about them. 

The Breed
Persian cats' body built can range from medium to large. It may appear fluffy like a pillow but actually has a good muscle tone. The fluff or its coat has a fine texture and seems to be full of life. That is what gives the appearance of richness to this breed.

How to Care
Caring for your Persian cats need not be as regal as they seem to be. The idea is to be responsible and do your tasks accordingly.

You have to provide your pet with the best kind of food. They are not humans and their needs are a lot different from you. So do not give them your leftovers. Choose the quality cat food according to your budget. Make sure that you give them the food as fresh as possible. Don't let your cats touch spoiled food or else it may cause them sickness like diarrhea or upset stomach.

Always maintain their litter boxes. They have a sensitive smell. And they don't like anything that stinks. This will also do your house good because you will be able to keep things tidy.

And of course, know your pet. You have to observe them well. You need to know when something's not right. Have the veterinarian check them annually and whenever needed. 

Just like a child, there are vaccinations that your cat needs to have. You have to include that on your monthly budget. So you better check your vet for some advice on how much you have to allot for each month's check up, if there would be any.

And, of course, you have to take time to really care for your pets. Take time to play with them. They need to feel that you love them. Spend quality time with your cats. If you will be having other pets at home, take time and strategize on including the new one to the whole system.

Your cats tend to get jealous when they don't get the attention that they used to have. It may lead to stress and depression. If you don't take notice, this may get worse. So you always have to be very cautious.

Get in the groove of your Persian cat care. And you will be surprised that through time, you will be able to develop ways to identify the signs and act on them before it becomes too late.
