Adopting a Webkinz Virtual Pet:  What You Need to Know

Are you a parent who is interested in letting your child have a Webkinz virtual pet?  If you are, you may be curious as to how they can get started.  You may also be wondering how the online adoption process works.  If you are, please continue reading on.

To get your child set up on the Webkinz website, which is where they will be able to adopt a virtual pet, you first need to purchase your child a Webkins plush toy.  Unfortunately, your child cannot access the website without one.  Why?  Because these plush animals have secret Webkinz codes that come attached to the tags.  If you purchase a plush animal without a secret code, take it back to the retailer, as it will be their responsibly to provide you with a valid code.  Do not lose this code, as you often cannot get it back again.

In keeping with buying Webkins plush pets for your child, you will want to be cautious of those that are being sold as used.  They are cheap and easy to find online, but they may prevent your child from adopting an online pet.  The Webkinz secret codes can only be used one time and one time only.

To get the online adoption process started, an account will need to be created.  You may want to help your child with this part.  A user name and password will need to be created.  Make sure that they are unique, yet easy to remember.  It may be a good idea to write all of the information down and keep it in a safe place.  It is also important that you save the Webkinz secret code.  If there is a problem, like if your child forgets their username or if they want to change their password, the secret code provided will be needed again.

What is nice about the Webkinz.com website is that your child can adopt more than one pet.  In fact, you will find that a large number of pets can be adopted.  The Ganz company, however, recommends that you have no more than 100 Webkins virtual pets on one account.  If you or your child wants to have more pets than 100, a new account should be created.  Please remember though that it can be difficult and time consuming to care for a large number of virtual pets at the same time.  As previously stated, each Webkinz secret code can only be used once.  If you and you child want to adopt more pets, additional plush animals must be purchased to get more codes.

Once the adoption process has been completed and your child has named their virtual pet and decided on a gender, they will see a total of 2000 in KinzCash in their account.  They will also receive a special Webkinz Guide.  This guide should be looked over, as it will help them understand the process of owning and caring for their virtual pet.  Additional ways that KinzCash can be earned, like by playing games online, will also be covered.

The Webkinz secret code will expire after one year.  There will be a two-week grace period where the account can still be used.  After that, account access will no longer be granted.  All users still have thirty days to purchase new secret codes before they lose their current account settings, which may include a large amount of accumulated KinzCash.

PPPPP

Word Count 567
