Buying Webkins:  Should You Buy Online or Local?

Are you a parent who is looking to buy a Webkins pet or pets for your child?  If you are, you may be curious as to where you can purchase them from.  The good news is that you do have a number of different options, both on and offline.  You may, however, be wondering which option is best for you.

Before examining the pros and cons of shopping for Webkins pets online, there are a few important points that must first be stated.  If you intend to shop online, it is important to know that Webkins are also commonly spelled Webkinz.  Next, know that some online marketplaces, like eBay.com and Amazon.com sell, used Webkins.  If the secret code that come attached to the tag has already been used, your child will not be able to use it again to adopt a virtual pet online.

As for why you should shop online for Webkinz pets, there are a number of pros or plus sides to doing so.  One of those is that you are presented with the largest selection of products.  If you didn’t already know, Webkins pets come in a number of different formats.  There are plush turtles, frogs, panda bears, snakes, cats, dogs, lions, and so much more.  Retail stores are often limited on the number of products that they carry, so you should find a larger selection online.

Another pro or plus side to buying Webkins pets online is that is easier for you to find the best deals.  As previously stated, Webkinz plush pets are sold on eBay.com and Amazon.com, but they are not only the websites that list them for sale.  Online gift shops, bookstores, media stores, and toy stores also sell them.  It is important to remember that different retailers sell their merchandise for different amounts of money.  Also, the fast pace of the internet allows you to price compare, as well as compare selection, all in a matter of minutes.

As for the cons or downsides to buying Webkins pets online, there are a couple of them.  As it was previously stated, you can find used plush pets available for sale.  These are okay to purchase if the secret Webkinz code has not been used already or if you just want to have the plush pet for your child.  It is also important to note that many online retailers only accept credit or debit cards online, so you need to make sure that you have these as available methods of payment.

As for shopping locally, many shoppers find it easier to visit their local retail stores.  All they really need to do is hop in their car and go.  If you are taking your child with you to pick out their own Webkins plush pet, this may be more exciting for your child.  They will get to actually see and hold all of their choices.  This is less likely to result in disappointment.

The only real downside to buying Webkins pets locally is that not all stores carry them.  Webkinz are popular and their popularity is continuing to increase, but still not all stores carry them.  For your knowledge, gift shops are often the largest carriers of Webkinz products, but some book stores and toy stores carry them as well.  You can easily find a local retailer by visiting the company website at Webkinz.com or you can call your stores ahead of time.

PPPPP

Word Count 569
