Important Factors to Consider Before Giving a Webkins Pet as a Gift

Are you the process of finding that perfect gift for a child between the ages of six and thirteen?  If you are, you may know that finding the perfect gift can be hard and it may even seem impossible.  That often changes when gift givers come across Webkins pets, which is also commonly spelled Webkinz.  These neat little plush toys open up a world of fun and excitement for children, but are they really the right gift?

Before examining a few factors that can help you decide if a Webkins pet is right for your gift recipient, it is important that you know how they work.  As for what you will buy, you will get to choose from a large selection of plush animals.  These animals include pandas, turtles, cats, dogs, snakes, and so much more.  Attached to the tag is a Webkinz secret code.  This code can be used on the website to adopt, name, and care for a virtual pet.  The child in question can play games to earn KinzCash, which is virtual money.  That money can be used to buy food, toys, medicine, and other accessories.

One of the many factors that you will want to take into consideration, when determining if you should give Webkins pets, as a gift is your recipient’s age.  As it was previously stated, Webkins pets are ideal for children between the ages of six and thirteen.  This is because that is the age range that the website is designed for.  The games and questions that will be asked are age appropriate for this age range; however, older and younger children can also use the website.  If you are looking for a gift for a toddler or a preschooler, you can still purchase a Webkins pet, as the secret code provided does not have to be used.

When looking to give a Webkins pet as a gift, computer access should also be examined.  Does your gift receipt have a computer with internet access in their home?  They should if you want them to get full use out of this popular toy.  If your gift receipt does not have internet access in their home or if you are unsure, it may be best to examine other ideas.  With that said, you should know that the Webkinz brand sells much more than these plush and virtual pets, including clothing, clothing accessories, trading cards, lip gloss, and so forth.

Speaking of computer access, is your intended gift recipient even allowed to use the internet?  Do their parents let them?  If the answers is no or if you don’t know, you may first want to talk to the parents.  Most children, especially between the ages of six and thirteen, will want to do the virtual portion of this toy.

Your gift recipient’s likes and dislikes should also be taken into consideration.  This is because there are a large number of Webkins pets for you to choose from.  Does the child already own a Webkins pet?  Ask their parents to make sure that you don’t purchase the same one.  If not, what animals or colors does the child like?  Be sure to purchase one that you think they will like and want to play with

When looking to buy Webkins pets for a child that you know, cost is another factor that should be taken into consideration.  They are affordably priced, but the secret Webkinz codes only last for one year.  Would the parents be willing to buy another pet the next year?  Better yet, would you be wiling to?  You want to make sure that you choose a gift that will keep on giving, not one that your recipient will automatically be unable to use or play with after a year.

As stated above, there are a number of factors that you will want to take into consideration, before you buy a Webkins pet for a child that you know.  When in doubt, it may first be best to quickly speak with the child’s parents.

PPPPP

Word Count 669
