The Dangers of Buying Used Webkinz

Are you interested in buying a Webkinz plush pet for your child?  Webkinz pets, also commonly spelled Webkinz, is more than just a stuffed animal.  While you do purchase a cute and cuddly plush toy, your child gets so much more than that.  Attached to the tag is a Webkins secret code.  This code can be used to unlock a world of fun on the official Webkinz website.

A plush toy that can be used to unlock a world of fun online sounds pretty neat, but you may be looking for more information.  For starters, the secret Webkinz code that is attached to the plush animal can be entered in on the website.  When it is, your child is able to adopt an online version of their stuffed animal.  They get to name it and care for it overtime.  Not only will your child learn about responsibility, but they will also learn about money management.  Your child can earn virtual cash by playing fun games and taking quizzes.  This virtual money can be used to buy furniture, accessories, and other neat things for their pet.

The virtual world of Webkins pets sounds pretty neat doesn’t it?  That is why they have taken the internet and many children by storm.  Many parents are finding that they make great gifts.  They are also finding them to be fun and exciting ways to teach children about money management, responsibility, and goal setting.  The only problem is that some parents are concerned with the cost.  That is why many opt for buying used Webkins pets, but is that really a god idea?

As for why some parents, like yourself, choose to purchase used Webkins pets, many parents like the reduced cost.  Used products, including toys, are often offered at a discounted price.  Also, new Webkinz plush pets hit store shelves on a regular basis.  This can sometimes make the older and rare pets hard to find.  If your child is looking to start a collection or if they want something in particular, you may find the best luck buying used.

As for where used Webkinz plush pets can be purchased from, you do have a number of different options.  Yard sales, flea markets, and thrift stores may have used Webkins available for sale.  With that said, if you have your heart set on buying used, online auction websites, like eBay.com, and other online marketplaces, like Amazon.com, should be examined.

Although buying used Webkins pets may be able to save you a little bit of money and although you may be able to find older, rare pets, there are a number of downsides to doing so.  Did you know that the Webkinz secret code that appears on the tag can only be used once?  This means that your child may get the plush toy, but they may not be able to access the website.

So, should you avoid buying them used?  Not necessarily.  If your child does want to adopt their own online pet, you can make sure that the code hasn’t been used before.  If you don’t know, you may want to opt for a brand new Webkinz pet, just to be on the safe side.

It is also important to know that you can find new Webkins pets for cheap prices as well.  As for how you can find affordably priced Webkins, you will want to try shopping online, as you can quickly compare prices and find the best deals.  Remember that not all retailers charge the same amount of money for their products.  You can also look for sales.  These sales can occur at just about any point in time, but they are more likely to occur around Christmastime.

PPPPP

Word Count 617
