Webkinz and KinzCash: What You Need to Know

Are you a parent whose child is interested in having his or her own Webkins pet?  If you are, you should know that your child gets more than just a cute and cuddly plush animal.  Attached to that animal is a secret code.  That secret code will lead to a world of fun on the safe Webkinz.com website.  It is there where your child will get to adopt and care for a virtual version of their plush pet.

As cool as your child may think that owning a Webkins virtual pet is, you, as a parent, may decide to review the website.  You may be curious as to whether or not the website is safe for your child or how your child can care for their pet.  When you do so, you will see that your child needs to buy things for their pet, like medicine if they get sick, furniture, and other accessories.  This may cause you some concern.  Some parents think right away that they need to spend additional money.  This isn’t, however, the case, at least right away.

As for how your child can buy things to care for their virtual Webkins, they will do so with KinzCash.  KinzCash is virtual money that your child can earn and spend.  It will be used to care for their pet, as well as to gain them access to other neat features on the website that are considered extras.

Although your child does have the ability to start earning KinzCash right away, he or she will be provided with some upfront.  With each adopted animal, 2000 worth of KinzCash is given.  If your child wants to get more secret Webkinz codes and adopt additional pets, they get 2500 in KinzCash for every additional animal up to 10 and then 3500 points from then on up.  

Although 2000 in KinzCash does seem like a lot, it is important to know that it will not last forever.  The good news is that it is very fun, easy, and even a little bit educational for your child to earn more.

Speaking of which, there are a number of ways that KinzCash can be earned.  These ways are all fun and educational.  Your child can complete virtual jobs, take fun and educational quizzes, play arcade games, and so forth.  In addition to earning more virtual cash, your child will get so much more out of the process.  The quizzes, as previously stated, are fun and educational.  The arcade games are also educational in nature, but they also help to promote logical thinking.

As for what the KinzCash can be used for, you will see that it is a lot.  Although no Webkinz virtual pets will die, they can still get sick.  If your child’s pet gets sick, a doctor’s visit is needed and your child will have to purchase medicine.  Furniture and other accessories, such as toys, books, and exercise equipment, can be purchased from the W Shop and the Curio Shop.  In addition to caring for a virtual pet, KinzCash can also be used to purchase other stuff as well, including a miniature movie making studio.

As it was previously stated, you are not responsible for paying real cash to have your child care for their adopted pet.  With that said, each Webkinz secret code expires after one year.  A new Webkins pet will need to be purchased so that your child can get a new code.  Additional money can be spent if your child wants to care for more than one virtual pet at the same time.

PPPPP

Word Count 595
