Webkins Pets:  Common Questions Answered

Are you the parent of a child who wants to own a Webkinz pet, also commonly spelled Webkins?  If you are, you may be curious.  At first glance, Webkinz pets look just like traditional plush animals; however, they are much more than that.  

Since it is not uncommon for parents, like you, to have questions and concerns about Webkinz pets, a few of those common questions and their answers are highlighted below for your convenience.

Question:  What are they?

Answer:  Webkinz pets are plush pets that come with a secret code attached to the tag.  This tag allows your child to adopt an online, virtual version of their plush pet.  Your child can then take care of their pet online and on the Webkinz website.

Question:  What is the recommended age range?

Answer:  In all honesty, you will find that it depends.  According to Ganz, the company that runs the Webkinz website, they state that their site is designed for kids between the ages of six to thirteen and up.  With that said, it is important to remember that you do not have to use the secret code that you are provided with.  The stuffed animals are generally safe for children aged three and up to play with.  

Question:  How can you buy Webkinz pets?

Answer:  Webkins pets, as well as other similar accessories, can be purchased from a number of different retailers, both on and offline.  If you are interested in shopping locally, you may want to examine your local toy stores and gift shops.  As for shopping online, media stores, toy stores, and gift shops often sell the products.  Online auction websites and online marketplaces, like eBay.com and Amazon.com also sell these products in both new and used conditions.

Question:  What can my child do on the Webkinz Website?

Answer:  A lot!  There are actually a lot of fun and safe activities that your can do on the website.  For starters, your child is able to adopt and name their pet.  They can also create and design a room for them.  Next, they have the ability to complete jobs, play games, and take quizzes.  By doing so, your child can earn KinzCash, which can be used to purchase food, furniture, and other products for their pet.

Question:  How does a Webkinz virtual pet benefit my child?

Answer:  There are a number of ways that your child can benefit from using and playing with a Webkinz virtual pet.  As previously stated, your child able to earn “cash,” by playing games, taking quizzes, and so forth.  This can help to teach your child the importance of responsibly.  Your child will also learn how to properly manage their money.  Even though they aren’t using real money, the lesson is still the same.

Question:  Is the Webkinz website safe to use?

Answer:  Yes.  The Webkinz website is very safe for children to use.  One feature that some parents are concerned about is the chat rooms.  What you need to realize is that these chat rooms aren’t like most of the other ones that you can find online.  In fact, the website has a KinzChat Plus area.  This area only allows certain, non-offensive words to be used.  This means that you can take comfort in knowing that your child shouldn’t be targeted by a child predator or harassed online.

Question:  What if we experience website problems?

Answer: This is a common question that is asked, as many websites do experience problems from time to time.  There are some parents who wonder what will happen if their secret Webkinz code doesn’t work.  On the website, there is a section for parents.  Here, you will find information on what to do if you or your child experiences a problem with their Webkins pets or the website in general.  Ganz, the company behind the scenes will take steps to help you rectify the problem at hand.

Now that you really know all that there is to know about Webkins pets, at least from the standard of a parent, you may be ready to get your child started.  Although the Webkinz website is safe for your child to use, it is still advised that you take steps to monitor their use of the internet.

PPPPP

Word Count 707
