Webkinz Secret Codes:  How To Get Them

Are you a parent?  If you are, your child may be interested in adopting and caring for a virtual pet online.  This process is often referred to as Webkinz or Webkins virtual pets.  Unfortunately, your child can’t just decide to sign on to the Webkinz website and adopt a virtual pet; there is a process that must first be followed.  That process involves first acquiring a Webkins secret code.

Now that you know that your child needs a Webkinz secret code to adopt and care for a virtual pet, you may be curious as to how you can go about doing so.  The best option is to buy a Webkinz pet.  When you do so, you will get a stuff plush animal.  This animal comes with a secret code on the attached tag.  Your child can then use this code to access the website.  When buying your child one of these plush toys, know that you do have a number of different options.  There are a number of plush animals to choose from, including tiger snakes, penguins, pandas, cats, dogs, and frogs.

As for how you can go about buying Webkins, you may be pleased with all of the options that you have.  Regardless of where you live, you should be able to find them available for sale.  For starters, Webkins can be purchased locally.  Many gift stores, toy stores, and media stores carry them.  As popular as these plush and virtual pets are, not all stores carry them, so you may first want to make a few phone calls.  You can also find a list of retailers that sell Webkinz products on the Webkinz.com website.

In addition to buying Webkins locally, you can also buy them online.  In fact, you may find shopping online easier.  Many local retail stores only carry a limited selection of Webkinz pets; therefore, if you are looking for something in particular, you may have the best luck with shopping online.  There are a number of retailers online that sell them and for different prices.  You can easily find these online retailers with a standard internet search.  

Webkins pets can also be purchased from online auction websites, like eBay.com, and other similar online marketplaces, like Amazon.com.  If you do decide to make your purchases from these websites, just be sure to proceed with caution.  If the plush toys are being marketed as used, their online codes may have already been used, preventing your child from using them again.

Now that you know how you can get Webkinz secret codes for your child, you may be curious as to what it is your child will actually do with them.  As previously stated, the Webkinz secret code allows your child to use the virtual website.  There, they will be able to adopt and name a virtual pet, which will be like a twin to their plush pal.  In addition to just getting a virtual pet to name, your child will also get a small amount of KinzCash.  This is virtual cash that your child can use care for their pet.  Additional KinzCash can be earned by playing fun and educational games and by taking short quizzes. 

In your quest to learn more about Webkins and the secret codes that are needed, you may turn to the internet.  If you perform a standard internet search with the phrases “Webkins secret codes,” or “Webkinz secret codes,” you will likely find information on cheat codes.  Getting free codes does sound nice, but they are not the same thing.  First, they only give you access to something, like furniture.  Also, you are advised against using them.  Those caught using Webkinz cheat codes can find themselves permanently banned from the website.  As it was previously stated, there are easy and legitimate ways for you and your child to get these secret codes.

As a reminder, Webkinz secret codes come attached to the plush pets that are available for sale in retail stores across the country and online.  As for why you should purchase these plush and virtual pets for your child, they can learn the importance of goal setting, money management, and responsibility.

PPPPP

Word Count 691
