Webkinz Virtual Pets:  How the Adoption Process Works

Are you are parent who is interested in having your child adopt and care for a Webkins virtual pet?  If you are, you may be curious as to how the adoption process works.

The first step in letting your child adopt a Webkinz, also commonly spelled Webkins, virtual pet is to purchase a plush animal.  Webkins pets are sold online and in retail stores all across the nation.  They come in a number of different formats, including cats, dogs, snakes, lions, bears, frogs, and turtles.  Attached to the tag of these plush animals, you will find a Webkinz secret code.  This is the code that will grant your child access to the website.

Once you have a Webkinz secret code, you will need to visit the website, which is located at Webkinz.com.  There you will need to create an account for your child.  A username will need to be created.  Make sure it is appropriate and unique or you may be required to make changes.  A password also needs to be created.  As previously stated, you will need to have your Webkinz secret code handy.  Be sure to have the secret code on hand at all times, as well as all passwords.  If you forget your username, you will need to have them both to regain entrance to the website.

Once the previous process has been completed, your child will then be able to see their virtual pet.  At this point in time, they will need to decide on a gender for their pet.  It is important that your child makes their choice wisely, as it is not one that can be changed.

Next, your child will get to name their Webkins virtual pet.  As with the gender of the pet and the username, the pet’s name cannot be changed later on.  That is why it is important for your child to choose wisely.  You should give them extra time to think about it if needed.  Also, be sure to choose a safe and appropriate name, not something that can be considered offensive.  If you do, your child may be promoted to change the name of their virtual pet or a new name may automatically be assigned.

Once the adoption process has been completed, your child will get a total of 2000 KinzCash, as well as a guide that will outline the process of caring for their virtual pet.  All of your options will be highlighted in this guide.  If your child is young in age, review this guide with them, as it can help them successfully care for their pet, as well as get the most out of the Webkinz website.

Although many children are fine with adopting and caring for only one virtual pet online, please know that they do have the option to adopt more.  If your child is starting to get board with the website, you can purchase them another Webkins plush animal to get another secret code.  In fact, the more pets that your child has, the more that they get.  For example, two to ten additional codes will result in 2500 KinzCash for each adoption.  After that, your child will receive 3500 in KinzCash for additional pets.

As you can see, it is relatively easy to get your child started with having their very own virtual adopted pet online.  As a reminder, there are a number of benefits to letting your child do so.  Although KinzCash is virtual money, it can help to teach your child all about money management, including its importance.

PPPPP

Word Count 589
