What Are Webkins Pets?

Are you the parent of a child who recently asked if they could have a Webkins plush pet or a Webkins virtual pet?  If you are, you may be looking for more information.  For starters, did you know that the two are one in the same?

Webkinz plush pets are sold in retail stores across the country and online.  They also come in a number of different styles.  The plush animals that are popular with most kids include lions, panda bears, snakes, turtles, frogs, cats, and dogs, but those are not your only options.  These plush animals are cute, cuddly, and great for any stuffed animal collection.

As nice as a cute and cuddly plush animal is, you may be wondering why the average selling price is around $15.  After all, that can seem a little bit high for a stuffed animal.  What you need to know is that Webkins pets are more than just traditional stuffed, plush toys.  You also get a secret code.  As previously stated, the plush animals and virtual pets are one in the same.  Attached to the tag of the plush animals is a secret code.

Once again, as neat as a secret code sounds, you may be curious as to what your child can do with it.  Your child can use this secret code to access the Webkinz website, which is located at Webkinz.com.  There, they will be able to adopt a virtual pet, which will be an online version of their new plush friend.  Right away, your child will be able to name their animal, but that isn’t all that they can do.  In fact, that is just where the fun begins.

When you or your child registers the secret code online and finishes the adoption process, a small amount of KinzCash is awarded.  This is the name for virtual cash.  Right away, the money can be used to buy a few items for the newly adopted pet, including furniture.  Also, right away, you will be able to see that more money is needed.  Here is where the real fun begins.  If you are a parent, you will love what the Webkinz brand and it virtual world can do for your child.

Since more money is needed to care for your child’s virtual pet, they will need to earn it.  As a reminder, virtual cash is used; therefore, you do not have to pay extra for your child to play this online game.  Instead, your child will earn their own virtual KinzCash.  They can do so by answering quiz questions, playing arcade games, as well as doing a few other activities on the website.  The games that your child will play and the questions that they will answer are all fun, educational, and they help to promote logical thinking.

As previously stated, your child will be able to buy fun accessories for their adopted pets online through the use of KinzCash that they earn.  This may give you comfort in knowing that no extra money is needed to be spent right away, unlike many of the other popular electronic toys and games today.  With that said, it is important to know that the Webkinz secret code that your child gets from their plush animal will only last for a year.  After that year has passed, a new Webkins pet with a new secret will need to be purchased.  

PPPPP

Word Count 565
