Best Applications for College Students

As a college student, you need to have several things in order to keep your sanity.  For one, you have to have a good study schedule, next you need to be able to communicate with your friends and family, which is why so many students have the iPhone.  However, one of the most important aspects about having an iPhone and being a college student, is the fact that you can apply certain applications that will help you both in your academic life, as well as in your social life.  With the iPhone consistently coming out with new applications, you are able to find some that are entertainment and helpful.  

Perhaps one of the coolest applications for a college student who always wants to have a good time is the Ajax Bartender iPhone application.  This amazing application allows you to find and make over 40,000 various alcoholic drinks.  However, what really makes this application so unique is the fact that it allows you to choose your drinks based on what you want to put in them.  Have you ever been with friends, and someone says they want to drink Tequila, but they don't know how to make very many different types of drinks with it.

Well, with the Ajax Bartender application, you can choose Tequila, and then you are able to choose what you want to mix it with and an entire list of various drinks featuring the two ingredients you want pop up on your screen.  This is perfect for holiday party ideas, spur-of-the-moment get together with friends, or just a great companion when you go bar hopping.  You will never have to wonder what you're going to drink that night.  

Another great application is a far cry from the above one; however, it serves an equally important role in the life of a college student.  Whether you are majoring in physical science or criminal justice, you will have to take math courses.  And if you are like most people, than you have to have a calculator when you enter these dreaded classes.  However, instead of having to carry your iPhone and a huge calculator, you are able to carry just your iPhone when it has the Belfry SciCalc installed.  This scientific and programming calculator will give you access to many different types of equations.  Whether you need this calculator for Algebra, Trigonometric functions or even with standard math problems, this application can handle anything mathematical you throw at it.

Which is what makes this application perfect for a wide variety of college students, because it doesn't matter if you are working on a hexadecimal problem, or you can't remember what the square root of 164 is, you are able to use this calculator with ease and precision.  Also, the main reason why so many people love this application is because it eliminates the need for a bulky scientific calculator, in most cases, and it allows you to carry only your iPhone.  When you're in college, you have enough to worry about, so why not let your iPhone Belfry SciCalc take care of the math for you?
