Best iPhone Business Professional Accessory

As a business professional, you require accessories and other equipment in order to make your business life run smoother.  One of the top ways to streamline your business communications is through having a cell phone that is dedicated to keeping you connected with your business world.  The best cell phone for this type of use is the Apple iPhone.  The reason for this is because with the iPhone, you are able to not only have crystal clear voice communication with your business contacts, but you are also able to check your e-mail, surf the Internet and text message quicker than you ever thought.  Of course, when you're tired of dealing with the business world, you are able to listen to your favorite song and relax after a grueling day at the office.  

However, having an Apple iPhone isn't enough to make your professional life streamlined and compact.  There are many accessories for the iPhone that have been developed with the business professional in mind.  You will find that with these various accessories, you will be able to become more productive as well as allowing your iPhone to better suit your individual needs.  If you use your iPhone constantly, than you are probably tired of having to hold the device up to your ear, and you do more than likely not want to fill your ear with a headphone or Bluetooth set.  If this is you, than you will want to have an iPhone accessory that not only frees your hands to type on the computer or make notes, but also your ears so you can hear what is going on around you, which is very important when driving in the car.  

Perhaps the most unique professional iPhone accessory is the Blueant Supertooth II Speakerphone for the Apple iPhone.  This unique accessory not only has the same benefits of a Bluetooth device, but it also frees your ears and your hands from any responsibility to the iPhone.  This wonderful iPhone accessory provides you with chilling vocal clarity, even though the sound is being produced through a loudspeaker.  It doesn't matter if you are in your office, at home, driving in the car or sitting in a coffee shop, this Bluetooth speakerphone will give you the freedom that you need to get your work done smoothly.  With this product, you are given fifteen hours of talk time, as well as up to 800 hours of standby time.  

One of the coolest features about this Bluetooth speakerphone is the fact that you can attach it to your sun visor within your car, allowing you to drive safely while still holding a crystal clear conversation.  The reason why this accessory is so useful in the car is because unlike normal in-the-ear Bluetooth devices, your hearing is not obstructed in any way.  If you have ever tried to have a conversation while driving with a Bluetooth device in your ear, it is easy for you to become distracted and you are also not able to hear your driving environment.

This poses a driving risk, and is not suggested.  However, with this device you are able to drive in pure safety, without having to worry about becoming distracted.  Also, this device is extremely portable, set up time for car use is literally less than five seconds.  You are able to attach this device through a magnetic clip, thus making the transfer from car to car extremely easy.  With this device you will not have to worry about your words not being heard by the person on the other end of the line, because you are given one of the best noise cancelling microphones in the industry.  The individual you are talking to will be able to hear you, and only you, which is very important when holding critical conference calls.  
