Can the iPhone connect with iPod Accessories

If you are a new owner of an apple iPhone, than you have probably not let your new cell phone leave your hands for several days.  This is to be expected, however, many people have questions concerning their new iPhone and its compatibility with other electronic devices, especially those within the Apple product family.  Perhaps the most widely asked question about the new iPhone's is whether or not they are compatible with other iPod accessories?  While many people may think that they wouldn't be compatible, they are greatly mistaking.  

All of the iPhone's are compatible with most iPod accessories, thus making your iPhone even more convenient and user friendly.  But another question that many people still have is what exact iPod accessories can you use with your new iPhone?  Of course, many people love to use their iPods not only for personal music enjoyment, but also to feel a party with their favorite tunes.  And if you no longer carry around your iPod, but rather your iPhone, you may be worried that you aren't going to be able to connect your iPhone to the speaker system your iPod used to connect with.  Yet, with all it's amazing glory, the iPhone has the same connectivity port as the iPhone, thus it will connect seamlessly to any iPod speaker systems as well as car docks.  

Of course, there are some accessories that have been altered to better fit the iPhone.  You are able to use standard headphones with the iPhone, however, if a call comes through, than you may experience slight difficulty taking the headphones out and answering the phone.  This is why Apple has made a set of headphones that are designed to work seamlessly with the iPhone.  These amazing headphones provide you with excellent sound quality, however, they also have a microphone built into the cord, thus when you receive a phone call, your song is paused and you are able to answer the phone, as well as end the call, by clicking a small button on the microphone.  Another great feature about these headphones is the fact that you are able to hear your friends through more than one ear, which is a very unique, and interesting, experience.  

Another reason why this iPhone headphone set is such a great accessory for your product is because it provides you with safety.  How many times have you been driving throughout traffic only to miss your exit or almost hit another vehicle because you were focused on holding your cell phone?  While it is advised that you never drive while talking on your phone, for working professionals, and those with a booming social life, this is not a possibility.  Thus, you need a product that allows you to have both hands on the steering wheel, as well as the freedom t move your head back and forth to view all traffic around you.

With the iPhone headphones, you are able to keep your conversations moving forward, without having to worry about holding your cell phone.  The added benefit of this is great because not  only will you be able to talk with your business partners, or friends, in true stereo, but you are also able to focus completely on the road and not on holding your cell phone.  
