How To Clean Your iPhone

When you have a product, such as the iPhone, it is imperative that you care for this electronic device so that it will last you many years.  However, one of the easiest ways to care for your Apple iPhone is not to go out and purchase various products to keep it safe throughout its life, while that is important, the best way to show your new cell phone some T.L.C. is through simply cleaning it.  However, this poses a major problem for many people.  The reason for this is because since the iPhone is such a unique device, and its screen is so sensitive to touch, many people don't know how they can properly clean their iPhone without damaging it. 

Of course, when you are cleaning your iPhone, you don't want to simply wash it with any type of cleaners, because these cleaners could actually cause the iPhone to malfunction, thus giving you a defective product.  When you are cleaning your iPhone, you must ensure that you take extra care, and don't do it if you are in a rush.  The reason behind this is because if you are lazy, or in a hurry, you may damage the inner workings of the iPhone, as well as the ever important screen.  When you are cleaning your iPhone, there are several items that you must have.  These items will allow you to effectively clean your phone without damaging the sensitive touch screen or the inner workings of your fantastic cell phone. 

Before you clean your iPhone, you need to make sure that you have the following items:  water, microfiber cloth and your favorite CD to relax you and make the process enjoyable.  Make sure that you NEVER use any type of chemical agents to clean your iPhone, because these can actually hinder the way the screen interacts with you.  Once you have gathered all of the items sit down and place the water in a small cup.  With the microfiber cloth, which is available through the many various iPhone retailers, dip the corner of the cloth into the water, allowing it to become saturated with the water.

Make sure that you do not use too much water though, a good way to test to see if you have enough water is to grab a piece of glass, or go to a mirror, and with the wet cloth wipe off a corner.  If there is streaming water drops coming from where you wiped the mirror, than you have too much water on the cloth and you need to dry it out some. 

You want to be able to wipe your iPhone screen without having drops of water left behind.  Next, take the slightly wetted cloth and begin to wipe the screen of your iPhone in a up-and-down motion.  Do not wipe in circles, because this can leave behind smudges that are unsightly when you turn on your iPhone.  It will usually take one or two wipes to clean the entire surface of your iPhone.  How often you clean your iPhone depends on how much you use it.  Since the screen of your phone is the interface to the entire product, than you will be using it constantly, thus the oils from your fingers will begin to build up and create a dingy look to the screen.  Average users clean their iPhone once a week, maybe once every two weeks.  
