How To Setup IMAP For Gmail On Your iPhone

If you haven't heard, Gmail is now becoming the number one e-mail client in the world.  The reason for this is simple, they provide their account holders with constantly increasing supply of storage space, and the e-mail interface is extremely simple and easy to use.  The Google e-mail service is just like the Google search engine, there aren't ads placed everywhere on your page, and you are able to find the information (or e-mails) that you want in a moments notice.  Thus, if you are constantly on the go, you want to be able to check your Gmail account wherever you are.

If you have an Apple iPhone, than you are probably wondering how you can integrate your Gmail account within the iPhone to make checking your e-mail as simple as glancing at your phone. 

Google has just recently announced that you are able to add a protocol to your iPhone strictly for Gmail accounts.  This IMAP application allows Gmail account holders to check their e-mail on any offline e-mail readers, which is perfect for individuals who have an iPhone, and even for those that don't.  It is extremely simple to install and run the IMAP application on your iPhone, thus allowing you to seamlessly integrate your iPhone to your Gmail account.  The first step to beginning this process is to go to your Gmail account and enable IMAP.  You can do this by logging into your Gmail account and then going to Settings.  After that click on Forwarding and POP/IMAP, then click "Enable IMAP."  

After you have done the above, grab your iPhone and tap Settings, then tap Mail.  After you have done so, make sure that you click Add Account.  After you have done so, do not click the Gmail option, because this has not been updated to the newest IMAP settings.  Instead, click Other.  Once you have done so, you will then begin to enter you information.  You will start off by entering your Name, and then you will put the Host Name, which is:  imap.gmail.com after you have done this enter your full Gmail account address, which includes the @gmail.com at the end of your username.

You will then move to the Outgoing Mail Server, or SMTP.  Under the Host Name, you will want to put: smtp.gmail.com then save all of your changes.  You have now just set up your IMAP Gmail account, thus allowing you to view all of your Gmail messages, both old and new. 

Being able to check your e-mail wherever you are is extremely important in our fast paced society.  Whether you are a business professional who needs constant access to their e-mail account, or if you simply want to be able to check your e-mail while taking a break in school, you will be able to do so when you activate your IMAP service on your iPhone.  Communication is key in our world, and if you are unable to reply to e-mail messages quickly, than you may suffer the consequence, either professionally or socially.  With the iPhone, you are able to stay connected to the world around you, no matter where you are. 
