How To Make Your iPhone Ringer Louder

Perhaps one of the most aggravating aspects of having a cell phone is when you miss a telephone call.  There are many reasons why you can miss a phone call, however, when you miss a very important call due to your ringer's low volume, this is extremely aggravating.  If you own an iPhone, than you may have missed many phone calls due to the low ringer volume, which is very surprising.  When you have a cell phone as high-tech as the iPhone, than you expect it to be able to properly notify you when you have a phone call, however, due to the iPhone's lower than normal ringer volume many people are missing phone calls.  But what can you do about the iPhone's low ringer volume? 

Many people who have an iPhone think that the reason why the ringer volume is so low is because of the iPhone's small speakers.  And this makes sense because the smaller the speakers are, the lower the volume, right?  While this may seem to be a great reason why the iPhone's volume is so low, it may not be the actual cause.  The main cause for a ringer volume that is extremely low may be due to the actual audio levels in your phone.  Many people have found that with their iPhone, the stock ringers have such a low volume.  In order to fix this, you may have to find new ringtones other than those that are already on your iPhone. 

The main cause for the ringtones being so quite is the fact that they are made of a low frequency.  Thus, if you want to be able to have a louder ringtone, than you will need to find a ringtone that is made of a higher frequency.  This may sound difficult, but you can find a higher frequency ringtone by simply turning to your computer.  If you are a MAC owner, than you will be able to go into the application Garage Band and find a new ringtone within this location.  Perhaps the best ringtone from Garage Band is the "Cell Phone Ringing" sound clip.

However, putting a new ringtone onto your iPhone requires a little work on your part.  In order to put this clip onto your iPhone, than you will need to run iFunstastic, which is for individuals that have an Intel-MAC, or if you are using a Windows PC than you will want to run the application iPhoneRingToneMaker or iBrickr.  These applications will install the ringtones from your computer to your iPhone, thus giving you the ability to have a ringtone that is clearly audible.  

The key to having a successful ringtone is picking one that is naturally loud by default.  This will increase the sound volume that is being release, and thus you will never miss another phone call because you didn't hear it.  When you have an iPhone, you want to enjoy every aspect of it, however, if the volume of the iPhone is lower than desired, than you will not be able to enjoy your iPhone to its fullest.  
