iPhone Signal Boosters

No matter what type of cell phone you have, there are certain qualities that you wish it had.  Perhaps the number one complaint of all cell phones is the fact that they sometimes don't always have great signal strength.  Whether you are travelling throughout the mountains, or live in an area of the country that doesn't have a great cell signal.  When you have an iPhone, you want to be able to enjoy all of the services that the iPhone will give you, without having to worry about loosing signal strength.  There is nothing more annoying than surfing the web, or checking your e-mail on your iPhone, and suddenly you loose service.  

While many people think there is nothing you can do except hope they install more cell phone towers in your area, however, there are several things that you can do when you need to have boosted cell signal.  The number one way that you can increase your cell signal is buy purchasing a cell signal booster.  These are amazing little chips that you place on the back of your cell phone, and they will literally boost your cell phone signal to limits that you never thought could be.  Perhaps one of the most popular cell phone signal boosters is the Wilson Cellular Amplifier.  This amazing cell signal booster will keep your cell signal as high as possible throughout your day. 

One of the greatest features about this cell signal booster s the fact that you can use your cell phone even when you're far away from any type of cell phone tower.  Actually, you will have full coverage up to fifty miles away, thus you will rarely run out of cell service.  With this signal booster, you will have twice the amount of cell service compared to if you did not have this signal booster.  Another great feature about this cell signal booster is the fact that it will make your battery last longer.

Did you know that the amount of power that your cell phone puts out is in direct relation to how close it is to a cell signal site?  Since your phone will "think" that it is much closer to the cell site than it actually is, you will experience a longer battery life.  

The main time that you loose cell service is when you are travelling in your car.  However, when you have The Wilson Cellular Amplifier for your iPhone, than you will rarely experience a loss of signal, this is because your cell signal is being amplified by an antenna that rests on the outside of your car.  Thus, the cell signal is being amplified by the antenna that is located on your car, also since this antenna is so powerful you can have a car-full of cell phone users, and they will all experience increased cell service.

This cell service signal booster is absolutely perfect for the iPhone because it works on the GSM and EDGE technologies.  If you are always worried about your cell signal power, than you will want to attach this cell signal amplifier to your iPhone, don't go a day without accessing full-power on your iPhone.   
