iPhone PED 3 Rotating Stand

If you're like most people, than you probably have a very hectic and extremely busy life.  Like most, you have mastered the art form of multitasking, and by doing so, you have adopted a cell phone that allows you to multitask unlike ever before.  With the Apple iPhone, you can accomplish many tasks at once, by switching back and forth between e-mail, text messaging and surfing the web.   However, as a busy individual, sometimes having to hold your iPhone can become too much and you aren't able to be as productive as you need to be.

This is especially true in an office environment, when you have a desktop computer, an office phone line and your iPhone.  Trying to juggle all of these variables can end up in confusion or worse, a terrible headache.  That's why when you have an iPhone; there are many products out there to help expand the helpfulness of this amazing product.  

One of the best accessories that you can have with your iPhone is the PED 3 Rotating Stand.  This amazing stand allows you to have a truly hands-free experience with your iPhone.  Whether you are at home, or at the office, this accessory will prove itself to be a true lifesaver.  How it works is very simple, you attach your iPhone to the stand, and it holds it in place, allowing you to use your hands for other ventures, such as writing that e-mail to your boss, or eating a turkey and cheese sandwich.  Basically this stand is designed around the iPhone, thus it will fit seamlessly.  

Once you set up your stand, you will notice that it has little arms sticking out, and it is these arms that will hold onto your iPhone, without obstructing the screen.  Unlike other stands, this PED 3 iPhone stand allows you to use your iPhone just as if you were holding it.  Once you place your iPhone into the stand, you will be able to actually rotate it from being vertical to horizontal.

You choose how you want to view your iPhone depending on what you are doing with the phone.  If you are watching a movie while at work, than you will want to turn it horizontal, so you can enjoy a full-screen film.  However, if you are sending a text message or talking on the phone, than you may want to keep it vertical.  

This iPhone stand is literally like having an extra pair of hands.  Once you purchase it, you will never want to live without it, because it provides you with security for your iPhone as well as it frees up your hands to continue throughout your workday.  You are able to rotate this stand 360-degree, and also it comes with two various angle positions you can choose from.  Also, you will never have to worry about this stand breaking because it has been made with superior steel construction as well as a baked on coating, which prevents chipping and other annoyances.  And the grips that hold onto your iPhone are extremely soft, being made of metal that has been coated with rubber.  
