Tips For Your iPhone Camera

There are many reasons why individuals buy the Apple iPhone.  Whether you want to streamline your portable electronic devices, or if you want to have a convenient way to stay connected to your friends, family and business contacts, no matter why you have purchased the iPhone, you will find a way to make it perfect for you.  However, one of the greatest features about the iPhone is the 2.0 Megapixel camera that is attached to the phone.

Unlike other cell phone camera, the iPhone camera actually takes decent photos that are perfect for your MySpace page.  Yet, there are several tips to taking great pictures with your iPhone camera, and if you apply these tips to your iPhone than you will be able to take beautiful pictures with your cell phone. 

The first tip that you need to remember about your iPhone camera concerns how it actually takes pictures.  If you have tried to take photos with your iPhone, than you may have noticed something was slightly off.  Unlike traditional digital cameras that have a two stage process to taking a photograph, the iPhone features a one-stage process.  Also, unlike traditional digital cameras that take the photo once you press the shutter button, the iPhone has a much different process.  When you press the shutter button of the iPhone, nothing happens, however, it is when you release the shutter button that the iPhone takes the photo.  This has resulted in many photo's being slightly "off timing" because the users are not used to how this camera actually takes photos.  

A great tip for taking a photograph with your iPhone is to press the shutter button, and then set up your shot.  After you are satisfied with what you are seeing, than you can release the shutter button to take the photograph.  Following this tip will allow you to take better composed photographs, as well as pictures that are properly timed.  The next tip for your iPhone camera is how you set up your contact list.  This tip is really fun and will make your contact list hilarious for you and everyone around you.  When you take photos of your contacts, you can set them to where they will appear when they call you.  A great way to have fun with this feature is to place your friends on one side of a glass screen and then place yourself on the other side.

Make your friend press their face up against the glass while you take the photo.  This will serve as an optical illusion, and when they call you it will look as if they are trapped within your iPhone.  If you are looking for a fun way to express yourself, and to just have a great time with friends, set up your contact list this way.  The iPhone has many different tips and tricks within it, however, the key is to simply experiment with these tips to make them work for you.  Perhaps the greatest aspect about the iPhone is the fact that it gives users the ability to customize and create a phone environment that is solely their own.  
	
