Weather Resistant iPhone Cases

One of the most requested accessories for the iPhone is the weather proof case.  The importance of having an iPhone case that is weather proofed is extremely high, mainly because the iPhone does not have extreme amounts of protection.  While it is an amazing phone with incredible capabilities, it is quite vulnerable to the elements.  Thus, if you are stuck in a rain storm, you may find that your iPhone is not completely safe by simply resting in your pocket.

If you live in a city that gets decent amount of rain, or if you simply want to protect your iPhone from the outside world, than you will want to purchase an iPhone weather-proofed case.  But what are the best cases for this type of protection?

If you have searched the marketplace for weather resistant iPhone cases, than you have probably noticed that many of them are bulky and, quite frankly, unattractive, while this may be true for many weather resistant iPhone cases, it isn't the truth for all of them.  There is one case that is stunning, both in its appearance and also in its ability to protect your iPhone from the harshness of Mother Earth.  This iPhone case is the OtterBox Defender Series, which is a smart and rugged case that will add a certain style to your iPhone.  This case still allows you to have full interaction with every feature of your iPhone, including pictures, all while giving you true water-resistant technology.  

It doesn't matter what type of iPhone that you currently have, whether it be the 4GB model or the 8GB model, they will both fit in this iPhone case.  One of the coolest features about this iPhone case is the fact that it allows you to have full interaction with the iPhone screen, while still protecting it.  This is made possible by a unique membrane that has been patented due to its unique ability to give you such accurate interactivity, while still giving you weather resistant protection.

Actually, you are getting three complete layers of protection within this case, which is much more than many other "weather resistant" cases.  Another feature that makes this iPhone case so unique is the fact that it is completely wrapped in silicone, which has two great purposes.

The first purpose is to allow you to have a seamless grip on your iPhone, so you will be less likely to drop it while walking throughout your day.  And the second reason the silicone is such a great feature is because it will protect your iPhone if you do accidently drop it.  Normally if you drop your phone, you are scared to even look at it because you don't know if the screen is cracked, or if it is completely broke.  However, because of the silicone you will have superior protection against accidental damage.

It should be noted though that the silence switch is not available to use when your iPhone is in this case.  So, if you must silence your iPhone, it is suggested that you do so before you put it into the weather-proof case.  
