Why You Need An iPhone

Ever since the introduction of the Apple iPhone, there has been a huge public response to this product.  Millions of people are proclaiming the wonders and beauty of this cell phone, iPod, calendar and mobile Internet device.  However, the real question is, why do you need to have an iPhone?  Of course, it seems that it is a great product because it streamlines your electronic productivity and allows you to have many products wrapped up into one, but what are the real perks to having an iPhone?  The answer to this question really depends on who you ask.  However, there are many actual reasons why the iPhone is a great purchase.  

The first reason why having an iPhone is a good idea is because it helps to streamline your life.  There is no denying that many of us live a very hectic and extremely busy life.  We rarely have time to relax, nonetheless running around the house looking for your cell phone, iPod and PDA.  However, when you have an iPhone you are actually getting all of these electronics, in one slim and sophisticated product.  Many people who used to carry around two or three electronic devices are thrilled at how easy and convenient their iPhone actually is.

They no longer have to worry about running out of pocket space for your mobile devices, thus they are able to move throughout their life without having to worry about leaving their iPod at their friends house or their cell phone at the restaurant.  With the iPhone, everything is packaged in a beautiful, and one-of-a-kind, device. 

Another reason why you actually need an iPod is because you are able to have the world at your fingertips, literally.  Unlike other cell phones, which allow you to look at a dumb-down version of the Internet, with the iPhone, you are actually surfing the net.  If you have never been able to access the Internet while sitting in traffic, or looking up your friend's MySpace profile on a whim, than you do not understand how great it is to be able to access the World Wide Web on a moments notice.  This constant availability to information is a great feature, and once you have it you will never want to own an internet-less cell phone again. 

Because so many of us have jobs across town, and friends that live on the other side of the city, we are always in our cars.  But what happens when you are asked to go somewhere, and you don't know where it's at?  Normally, you get on the Internet and MapQuest it, however, if you have an iPhone, than accurate directions to any destination is only a few 'taps' away.  When you have an iPhone, than you automatically gain access to the powerful mapping service, Google Maps, and it is with this application you can find your local pizza joint, Starbucks or even Public Library.  One of the coolest features is not the fact that you can get directions to this location, but you can also call them too.

Say you typed in "Starbucks,"  you would then be shown the closest Starbucks to where you are currently at.  You can then call them and place your order, or ask them questions about their coffee.  Very rarely will you find a device that not only connects you to your world, but also brings you closer to it.  With technology seemingly pushing the "world" further away, it is extremely refreshing to find a mobile device that connects you with those around you in such a dynamic way.  
