Wood Working Jigs

Wood working is a job, for which one requires to work with precision and skill. Mistakes during wood working may spoil the whole piece. In wood working, there are some things, which should be done repeatedly. Wood working jigs are tools, which help to do so without many mistakes.

They have been in use for a long time. Even today in the age where automated machinery is available for most of the tasks involved in woodworking, jigs are still very popular and useful for the small wood workers. 

Wood working jigs are nothing but simple pieces of wood. However, jigs made from metals are also used. Nonetheless, the wood jigs are very popular. There are several reasons for their popularity. They are very cheap. They do not damage, moreover, they can be made from the waste wooden pieces. The wooden jigs made from such pieces cost you nothing.

There are a different types of jigs used for different tasks. For example, the dowel jig is helpful for cutting dowel holes. These holes are very common. Moreover, we have to dig a number of dowel holes during a single wood work piece. Without using wood working jigs, this job would have been very troublesome and time consuming.

However, with a jig, we just have to place it on the wood and it will guide your cutting tool for creating the dowel holes. 

Similarly, one more commonly used type of jig is the dovetail jig. These jigs are particularly used for preparing drawers. They guide the woodworker to give a perfect shape to the different parts of drawers. 

The third type of wood working jigs are the router jig. They are used for supporting and guiding the wood when it moves through the saw. Therefore, it gets a very smooth and regular cut. Moreover, by making proper use of the router jig, the wood can be given very artistic and with a perfect cut. They are widely used for creating edges of the tabletops, drawer faces, etc. 

Another type of wood working jig is the Tenon Jig. It can be used for guiding the table saws. They can be angled in wide range of angles, i.e. 45 to 90 degrees. They are clamped on wood and their grove will guide the saw to provide a smooth and straight cut. 

There are a number of uses for wood working jigs. The first one is that they are the tools that enable a wood worker to do the same job in less time. Plus, they are used for guiding the cutting tools and so they enable the worker to make perfect and smooth cuts.

They are very cheap. They can be very useful for non-skilled people who want to do some household woodworking.
