Art Collecting: A Beginners Guide

Art collection is a very stimulating and inspiring
hobby for all. It isn’t just for the rich and famous,
but even regular everyday people too. There are
various forms of art that you can choose from,
especially since art’s definition can greatly vary
from one person to another. However, it doesn't really
matter whatever its form is, you’re the one to make
the call on which is attractive and how much are you
willing to spend for such piece.

To Go For Prints Or Originals?

In the art world, some people may look down on others
due to their different tastes in picking out art. For
instance, there are those people who only buy original
works and would never even consider buying prints.
However, you should take note that if you’re just
starting to collect art and is doing this for
enjoyment then originals are not really necessary to
buy, especially if they’re way out of your budget.

There is really nothing wrong with buying prints. In
fact, these are one superb way to have framed art that
would look lovely on your wall, just like how an
original would look, but at a way lower price.
Although here, you would not be having the same
texture as to the original work; since originals
usually show dimension and texture, while prints
won't. However, well printed artworks are not settling
of course.

In fact, a lot of art collectors have art prints by
different artists, which were fairly bought
inexpensively from the Internet, galleries and art
fairs. Amazingly, such pieces still look tasteful and
classy, instead of cheap looking like what most people
expect.

All Framed Up

Once you spot an original or print that you like, you
have the option to frame it by yourself or get
somebody else to do it for you. Generally, you can
find frames in a vast price range, starting from
cheaper metal frames to ornate and hand carved wooden
frames costing you a fortune.

With regard to using mats, which is another way of
framing your picture inside its frame by the use of
papers or illustration boards, you should take note
that such could detract your print. If you don't know
how to frame, then you should get your piece and get
it framed first. While doing so, observe how they’d
offer you different mats and frame styles.

You don’t have to hasten up when picking out the mat
you want to use. In fact, you should take your time
and deliberate on it carefully, since the mat and
frame color combinations can have a great effect on
how well or bad your artwork would look. You should
also consider how the frame would fit-in in whatever
place you’ll put it, like your home or your office.

If you want a clean and contemporary look, it’s
recommended that you use the Nielsen brushed metal
frames, which are not only cheap but are still elegant
looking too. These usually come in different colors.
Nevertheless, it’s safe to go for black or bronze.

If you’ll be placing them in a gallery, bronze would
also do well, especially since it wouldn’t cost you
too much. After all, most people that buy art from
galleries would have the art they bought re-framed in
able for it to match their home decor.

If more of a wood type of person, you can also get
wooden frames that are naturally stained. Cherry and
mahogany are the most preferred styles when it comes
to wooden frames, since their deep and reddish color
bring an elegant look to any artwork.