Extra Tips On Selling Your Art

Other than informing your prospective buyers on the
basics of your artworks, how much you are selling
them, and who are the people who have bought from you,
there are still some other things you can do to make
the probability of the sale hike up even higher. Here
are some of them.

Show Pictures Of Your Pictures

One way to encourage your prospective buyers to buy
your art is by showing them photos of how other art
collectors have made use or displayed the pieces they
have bought from you. Seeing your pieces in working or
living environments can be a great encouraging factor.
If you do not have that many collectors yet, you can
show them pictures of how you, yourself displayed your
art in different kinds of environments.

If your prospect is someone who is not really that
familiar with art, doing this tip can be very helpful
and fruitful. Since they may be having some difficulty
in imagining how or where they would display the
piece, if ever they bought it from you. It can also be
the case that they can’t really picture how the piece
would look like in their office or home.

Be Service Oriented

If you really want to make a sale, then your attitude
should show that you do so. Try to make time for
transactions and meetings regarding your art. Also,
try to make yourself available as much as possible to
deliver your piece to the collectors’ home or office.
You should also help them with hanging it, or even
make suggestions on where to place it, if they ask you
to.

If your buyer hasn’t made a specific pick of which
piece they want from your collection, you can also
offer them that you bring a number of your art to
their home or office, free of charge. Do this, so that
they can see how it would fit in their environment.
However, you should also make it clear to them that
they are not obliged to buy it if they don’t want to.

Give Them A Taste Test

If you want, you can also offer people to have a piece
or two of your works for a trial period of one or two
weeks, just to see how they would like the pieces.
However, with this kind of deal, you should make sure
that you have a written contract about your agreement,
get a promissory note, deposit or whatever kind of
security for your art’s safety.

Fish Around

You may also want to try fishing around. Try asking
people reasons of why they like or dislike a certain
piece made by other artists. From their answers, get
some ideas of how they would react if it is your art
in the hot seat. Of course, you do not do this just to
be discouraged, but to be able to think fresh and
innovatively for your next pieces.

Talk Earth Language

One of the most common mistakes of artists that are
first time selling their works is that they talk to
impress. Yes, it is impressive if you know a lot of
techniques, components and factors regarding art.
However, not all people that would be interested in
buying your work are artists too. Some of them may be
everyday people who know nothing about the technical
aspect of art, but are just simply captivated by your
work.

If this is the case, try not to delve into elevated
and heated art discussions, especially if they’re not
really asking for it. Avoid giving them information
that would remain undigested. Try to talk in their
level, since intimidating your prospective buyer would
be the last thing you’d want to do.