Title: 
10 Effective Ways To Reduce Your Business Costs

Word Count:
360

Summary:
Article showing 10 effective ways to cut your business costs


Keywords:
reducing your business costs,  free stuff,  online auctions, offline auctions, wholesale supplies, low prices 


Article Body:
10 Effective Ways To Reduce Your Business Costs
 
1. Barter
If you have a business you should be bartering goods
and services with other businesses. You should try to
trade for something before you buy it. Barter deals
usually require little or no money.


2. Network
Try networking your business with other businesses.
You could trade leads or mailing lists. This will cut
down on your marketing and advertising costs. You
may also try bartering goods and services with them.


3. Wholesale/Bulk
You'll save money buying your business supplies in
bulk quantities. You could get a membership at a
wholesale warehouse or buy them through a mail
order wholesaler. Buy the supplies you are always
running out of.


4. Free Stuff
You should try visiting the thousands of freebie sites
on the internet before buying your business supplies.
You can find free software, graphics, backgrounds,
online business services etc.


5. Borrow/Rent
Have you ever purchased business equipment you
only needed for a small period of time? You could
have just borrowed the equipment from someone
else or rented the equipment from a "rent-all" store.


6. Online/Offline Auctions
You can find lower prices on business supplies and
equipment at online and offline auctions. I'm not
saying all the time, but before you go pay retail for
these items try bidding on them first.


7. Plan Ahead
Make a list of business supplies or equipment you'll
need in the future. Keep an eye out for stores that
have big sales. Purchase the supplies when they go
on sale before you need them.


8. Used Stuff
If  your business equipment and supplies don't need
to be new, buy them used. You can find used items
at yard and garage sales, used stores, used stuff
for sale message boards and newsgroups etc.


9. Negotiate
You should always try negotiate a lower price for
any business equipment or supplies. It doesn't hurt
to try. Pretend you are talking to a salesman at a car
lot.


10. Search
You can always be searching for new suppliers for
your business supplies and equipment. Look for
suppliers with lower prices and better quality. Don't
just be satisfied with a few.
----


