Title: 
A Time To Focus And A Time To Diversify

Word Count:
499

Summary:
I’m the Queen of the Focus message in the Work at Home Mom Community. I believe it’s important to have a tight focus when you’re developing or growing a home business that will pass the test of time and bring in a reliable income. 

This is especially true when it comes to a Direct Sales business. If you’ve opted to join a Direct Sales company such as Mary Kay, Pampered Chef or Lia Sophia you will experience the highest level of success if you keep all of your business atte...


Keywords:
business, direct sales, focus, errand services, virtual assistant, wahm, work at home


Article Body:
I’m the Queen of the Focus message in the Work at Home Mom Community. I believe it’s important to have a tight focus when you’re developing or growing a home business that will pass the test of time and bring in a reliable income. 

This is especially true when it comes to a Direct Sales business. If you’ve opted to join a Direct Sales company such as Mary Kay, Pampered Chef or Lia Sophia you will experience the highest level of success if you keep all of your business attentions on that one company. 

There is a temptation for some Direct Sellers to branch off into a ‘complimentary’ business. They may think that a gourmet food company would be a perfect addition to a Pampered Chef business, and at first glance it might seem to be so – but it really isn’t. 

The beauty of Direct Sales is that it’s a ready made business. The company has done all the hard work for you when it comes to a sales plan, promotional materials, etc. Marketing experts have designed a system that has been proven to work if you just work it – so anything you do to muddy up the message is going to reduce your effectiveness. 

There are some businesses that do benefit from diversification, which is just a fancy way to say that you’re offering multiple products or services. 

A home based crafter often creates a wide variety of items, people do love choices at craft shows. An internet marketer will create several different websites of varying topics and interests to ensure that their affiliate income will remain stable through any particular market changes. 

One of the most interesting examples of diversification that I’ve seen is being demonstrated by a single mother in my town. Tishia Lee just left what will hopefully be the last of several low paying dead end jobs to launch her own home based business, ‘Tishia Saves Time’ (http://www.tishiasavestime.com). 

Tishia Saves Time is two businesses in one. On one side she’s offering Virtual Assistant (VA) services to busy internet marketers. A VA performs all kinds of administrative tasks according to the needs of a client. Tishia does internet research, answers client email, updates websites, etc. 

The other side of her business is offline. Tishia offers personal errand services for local clients. She’ll pick up dry cleaning or make a run to the grocery store for a low hourly fee plus mileage or she can even be tapped to come over and clean your kitchen on one of those busy days when you just need a helping hand. 

The two branches of her business flow smoothly together. She has acquired several regular clients and has the flexibility she needs in her schedule, leaving her plenty of time to enjoy her young son. 

So where are you with your home business? Should you be tightening up your focus or looking for ways to diversify?


