Title: 
Are You Correctly Located And Faced For Prosperity?

Word Count:
564

Summary:
The title of this article may sound a little strange. What did I mean by located and faced for prosperity?  I must warn that this is not a typical business article. It has nothing to do with marketing, sales, productivity or even the internet.  It is about a branch of Chinese Metaphysics called Feng Shui.


Keywords:



Article Body:
The title of this article may sound a little strange. What did I mean by located and faced for prosperity?

I must warn that this is not a typical business article. It has nothing to do with marketing, sales, productivity or even the internet.

It is about a branch of Chinese Metaphysics called Feng Shui. Feng Shui, which literally means "Wind Water", is an ancient meta physical science that studies how our surroundings can support us positively or negatively in our pursuit of our endeavors.

Business tycoons in Taiwan, Hong Kong and other parts of the world where there is a significant Chinese minority pay a lot of money to professional Feng Shui practitioners to help them get it right.

In this article I will show you how you too can apply Feng Shui to support your endeavors. Feng Shui is a very large subject with many systems and practices.

I will get you started with a very basic but effective Feng Shui formula called the "Eight Houses". In this system, all of us have a Kua number which is derived from our date of birth and sex.

Click the link below to to find out what your Kua number.
http://www.henryfong.com/kua.htm

Depending on our Kua number we are further classified into one of two groups namely the East or West group. If your Kua number is 1,3,4 or 9 then you are a member of the East Group and if your Kua number is 2,6,7 or 8 then you belong to the West group.

For the East group, the favourable directions and sectors are North, South, East and South East while for the West group the directions and sectors are North West, South West, West and North East.

How do you apply this?

If you are a East Group person, you should try to occupy a room in the favorable sector of your office and home. For an East Group person this is either the N,S,E or SE sector.

Once you have found your favorable sector you should then orientate your desk to face one of these favourable directions. Once again they are North, South, East or South East.

If you are unable to find a room in your favourable sector, you should at least ensure that your desk is facing a favorable direction.

That's it.

What are the benefits of facing your favourable directions? According to the ancient classic, you should expect to encounter more money making opportunities, better health and relationships.

But what if you do not? What if you encounter nothing? Why? According to Chinese philosophy, your luck is dependent on a combination of your destiny, luck cycle, Feng Shui and the human factor.

So if you are going through a favorable luck period, maybe nothing will happen, but if you are going
through a bad period, then you can expect to face monetary losses, poor health, bad relationships, accidents and break-ups!

What about sleeping? Should you sleep and face one of your favourable sectors and directions? The
answer is yes but the facing is based on the crown of the head.

Let's say that you want to face North. You should then sleep in a North-South axis with the crown of the head pointing North and the feet pointing South.

Is that all there is to Feng Shui? Of course not but if you do what I have prescribed above, you have taken the first step to using Feng Shui (or the energy of the environment) to support you endeavors.

All the best.


