Title: 
Business Development In The Rural

Word Count:
428

Summary:
There is that lure in the city. Cities have in its arms the infrastructures and commerce which makes it busy but productive. In the USA, there are these rural areas which are experiencing problems due to the lack of businesses even small-scale ones.

The establishment of businesses is a start of economic growth. One problem of the rural areas is that people lack capital. A few ventures because they do not have that much amount to initiate a business. With this, the local go...


Keywords:
Business Development


Article Body:
There is that lure in the city. Cities have in its arms the infrastructures and commerce which makes it busy but productive. In the USA, there are these rural areas which are experiencing problems due to the lack of businesses even small-scale ones.

The establishment of businesses is a start of economic growth. One problem of the rural areas is that people lack capital. A few ventures because they do not have that much amount to initiate a business. With this, the local governments decided to provide loans and other financial assistance for those who wish to start right. There are agencies which cater the needs of borrowers. Some are short-term loans and some are assisting people to find an organization or entity to borrow capital from.

However, another problem is really a huge one though these loans are available. It was discovered that most rural Americans do not have the necessary skills in planning for the business or marketing.

We suggest that before getting a loan, borrowers must consider some points:

First, learn what a business plan is.

A business plan helps entrepreneurs demonstrate they have fully researched their proposed business, that they know how to build their product line and provide excellent customer service, that they know how to sell their products and that they know how to manage financial risk.

Second, know how to develop a marketing plan.

To develop a detailed marketing plan you must thoroughly understand your business, your target audience, your industry and your company's position in that industry. At the conclusion of this class you will have a written, detailed plan for your business that covers the structure of business, your product, marketing and financing. You will have the opportunity to work with legal, marketing and finance experts so that at the end of the course you will know how to access resources to help you start and build your business.

Third, attend some symposium on business planning.
The course will include presentations on business planning, worksheets to develop the business plan, and guest speakers on core issues such as legal matters and financial risk. Even if you come from what sector, a background about business planning will really help you out meet your objectives. Business is a venture but not a suicide. So, equip your self with the necessary preparation.

Always bear in mind that the rural area is essential. Its progress is a big factor in the over-all development of the whole state or country. Building businesses in rural areas is building the strong niche of the whole place.


