Title: 
Business Team Building - What Is It?

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Business Team Building is a process that enables a group of people in a business environment to reach their goals using the team resources. Several factors that contribute to effective team building are clarifying the team goals, identifying issues which hamper the team, and addressing issues and removing obstructions.


Keywords:
team building, business team building


Article Body:
Simply put, a team is “a group of people working towards a common goal.” Therefore, Business Team Building is a process that enables a group of people in a business environment to reach their goals using the team resources. It refers to the selection and motivation of your staff towards your organization’s development and establishing a team feeling among them. There are several factors that contribute to business team building:

•	Clarifying the team goals 
•	Identifying issues which hamper the team from reaching its goals 
•	Addressing issues, removing the obstructions, and enabling the goals to be achieved

The primary skills required for business team building are identifying and recognizing the right issues, and dealing with them in an appropriate manner. 

Our personal and business lives are increasingly involved with people of various cultures and diverse backgrounds and we are expected to get along with them instantly. Therefore, there is a need to adapt to these changes as swiftly as possible. Business team building can also take a different form depending on the size and nature of the team. 

Business Team Building – The Environment
In a business where the composition of the team continuously changes, such as in a project environment, business team building would entail developing the skills of individuals to become effective team members. There is a need to change the skills and abilities of an individual to operate efficiently with the team, assimilate properly with the team or within multiple teams. 

In an environment where the team membership is unchanging, such as in a management team, the relations between the team members have a bearing on the performance of the team. If a team member leaves or another joins, it greatly affects the dynamics of the team and there is a need to foster healthy relationships between them. 

Business Team Building – Vital to Your Success
The key to the success of any business is an effective teamwork. The more cohesive a team, and the more harmonious the team environment in which people work together, the better the results you achieve. A fractured business team is a serious handicap for any organization. Business team building is vital for success because it is not natural for people to come together in a new group and hit it off immediately. Business team building starts with a common vision and a common goal, leading to functioning together to promote the best qualities of each member of the business team. 

Business team building involves in making the team members to stop thinking of themselves as competitors. Some of the advantages of business team building are:

•	Implementing complex plans and strategies as work is split into different areas of responsibility, enabling the team to tackle complex problems efficiently as a group than as individuals.
•	Networking together, the business team can come up with creative solutions. Brainstorming leads to solutions that would probably not evolve singly. 
•	Business team building is a necessity because teams are more enduring than individuals are. If one person of the team leaves, it may make the project difficult for some time, but will not cripple it.


