Title: 
Can Professional Sales Training Improve Your Bottom Line?

Word Count:
403

Summary:
Sales is like any other business. There are people who just do it as there jobs and are pretty good, there are people who do it cause its what they want to do, and are great at it, and there are people who are in the process of burning out.

Only, doing sales, you burn out much more quickly than in other fields. That's why it wouldn't even make sense to do professional sales training as you're starting out – how do you know you'll even be in it for more than a year or two....


Keywords:
professional sales training, sales training, sales ,salesmanship, sales seminars


Article Body:
Sales is like any other business. There are people who just do it as there jobs and are pretty good, there are people who do it cause its what they want to do, and are great at it, and there are people who are in the process of burning out.

Only, doing sales, you burn out much more quickly than in other fields. That's why it wouldn't even make sense to do professional sales training as you're starting out – how do you know you'll even be in it for more than a year or two.

There are many seminars, services, books, and other such like that offer you so called professional sales training, but take it from me, a professional. That is not where you want to start.

Of course, once you've made it past what we call the “two year hump”, you're probably in it for good, and can do professional sales training. You'll know who the players are, who use approaches compatible with your personality, and who you can avoid because they've got nothing to offer you.

Some professional sales training courses are really offered by the best people in the industry, people with such a nack for sales that they can charge hundreds of dollars for seminars to teach others how to do what they do.

But other times, professional sales training is just offered by two bit huksters, who don't know jack about sales, people who are good enough maybe to teach a beginner some tricks, but who aren't really worth the money you've got to pay to see them.

You see, professional sales training events involve salesmanship themselves, only they have to be sold to salesmen. You can tell good professional sales training, because there will be a lot of veterans there as well as newcomers.

Most sales companies offer professional sales training on the job, because, lets face it, you've either got it or you don't. Now, once you get into the game a little bit, you can sometimes benefit from further professional sales training seminars, classes and the like, but until then it's a bad idea to try that approach.

Until you've been in the industry a year or two, you won't have a nose for it, and won't be able to tell what professional sales training courses are likely to be good and which ones are just a money making scheme to exloit new comers.


