Title: 
Common mistakes to avoid during a corporate event

Word Count:
392

Summary:
Discover secrets of event organisers that you can learn for a successful event. Tap onto the mind of event organisers to acquire knowledge that you can only obtain through experinece in organising events.


Keywords:
corporate event planner, event planning mistakes, corporate event organiser, chillisauce, team buiilding exercise, corporate events, event facilitator, corporate event experts


Article Body:
One of the greatest factors influencing the success of a corporate event planner is the experience acquired from previous engagements. There are just some things that can only be learnt through experience, with no amount of preparation adequate. This is precisely why some organisations have a preference to engage corporate event management companies such as Chillisauce, so as to ensure a successful and hassle-free event.

Nevertheless, as a corporate event organiser, we are open to sharing experiences with our clients with the aim of enhancing customer relationships. Thus, the following insights are some of our inputs on critical mistakes that should be avoided by anyone organising a corporate event. 

<b>More time for planning</b>

Even if your corporate event may just be for two days, extensive preparations prior to the event will be required. Activities will need to be planned out, participants need to be confirmed and facilities as well as equipment need to be prepared in advance. Thus, it’s always advisable to have more time to plan for an event so as not to be caught unawares in any situation.

<b>Activities should not be rushed through</b>

Amidst budget and time constraints, many events have been organised to rush through a tight schedule without any time for recreation and rest. Therefore, the event turns out to become a stressful time rather than an enjoyable weekend. This defeats the purpose of running the corporate event in the first place, which also translates to a waste of money.

<b>Control the booze</b>

Although most employees may expect alcohol as part of the package, it may be wise to put a cap on alcohol consumption during corporate events. Many organisations had learnt it the hard way when intoxicated employees started behaving inappropriately during an event, disrupting other employees in the process. Furthermore, any team building exercise involving physical activities after alcohol consumption may place the company at risk of employees hurting themselves.

<b>Set aside budget for a good event facilitator</b>

The engagement of a good event facilitator for a beneficial and enjoyable event has always been overlooked. Indeed, a good facilitator will possess the skills required to ensure that all participants take part in the various activities. His or her good communication skills and team building content knowledge will ensure that the purpose of the event is achieved.


