Title: 
Construction Project Scheduling

Word Count:
482

Summary:
If your planning to build the home of your dreams and you want to make sure everything is going the way you want it to go, make sure the contractor draws up a schedule. Construction Project scheduling is the most important part of the plan. A construction project schedule give the ability for all those involved with building your home is on the same page. This schedule will have the ability to successfully organize, plan and control all the different construction projects, gi...


Keywords:
construction project scheduling, project scheduling, poject management


Article Body:
If your planning to build the home of your dreams and you want to make sure everything is going the way you want it to go, make sure the contractor draws up a schedule. Construction Project scheduling is the most important part of the plan. A construction project schedule give the ability for all those involved with building your home is on the same page. This schedule will have the ability to successfully organize, plan and control all the different construction projects, giving each of those involved their own specific job to do so there is no confusion during the construction of who is suppose to do what job. The construction project schedule documents everybody's job and when their supposed to be doing. In addition to assigning dates to project activities, project scheduling is intended to match the resources of equipment, materials and labor with project work tasks over time. Good scheduling can eliminate problems due to production bottlenecks, facilitate the timely procurement of the necessary materials, and otherwise insure the completion of a project as soon as possible. However, there are those who don't know what their doing which results in poor scheduling and causes considerable waste as laborers and equipment wait for the availability of needed resources or the completion of preceding tasks. Delays in the completion of an entire project due to poor scheduling can also create havoc for owners who are eager to start using the constructed facilities.

As with anything else in life, some scheduling of projects is often extreme. Various owners want detailed construction schedules to be submitted by contractors as a means of keeping track of the work progress. The actual work done is usually compared to the construction project schedule to make sure that everything is going as it should. After the construction is finished, you may want to compare the actual finished job against the planned schedule to see how close everyone kept to the schedule, and see how many changes you thought of and made during actual construction. In contrast to these instances of reliance upon formal schedules, many contractors don't like to use them because some feel that changing some things during construction makes for happier home owners. Sticking with a construction project schedule, there's no room for change. In particular, the critical path method of scheduling is commonly required by the owner, but is often regarded in the field as irrelevant to actual operations and a time consuming distraction. However, good construction companies use scheduling procedures whenever the complexity of work tasks is high and the coordination of different workers is required. Today, scheduling procedures have become much more common due to personal computers on construction sites and easy-to-use software programs. As a result, the continued development of easy to use computer programs and improved methods of construction project scheduling may overcome the practical problems associated with formal scheduling plans.


