Title: 
Electronic Logistics - The Money Saving Solutions

Word Count:
370

Summary:
The concept of conventional logistics covers all activities relating to the procurement, transport, transhipment and storage of goods. Logistics as generally understood is concerned particularly with material flow (raw materials, interim and final products), but also involves providing companies with services and information.

Nowadays the development of electronic information and communication technologies affects all spheres of life. Naturally, it influences significantly...


Keywords:
freight, e-logistics, shipping, trucking, freight companies, freightage rates, carriers, freightage


Article Body:
The concept of conventional logistics covers all activities relating to the procurement, transport, transhipment and storage of goods. Logistics as generally understood is concerned particularly with material flow (raw materials, interim and final products), but also involves providing companies with services and information.

Nowadays the development of electronic information and communication technologies affects all spheres of life. Naturally, it influences significantly economic life, including logistics. As a result, nowadays it is possible to speak about electronic logistics as extremely perspective field for further development.

On researching the problem of electronic logistics, it is primarily necessary to dwell upon the methods that are traditionally used in the related researches. Basically, it is possible to use phone inquiry, face-to-face interviews with companies implementing electronic logistics in their business. Also it is possible to interview management consultants and IT suppliers.

Obviously, nowadays electronic information and communication technologies are widely used in the field of logistics. As a rule, it is widely used in buying and selling transactions, as well as material follow transactions. It is necessary to point out that logistics services providers use electronic logistics wider than companies operating in the field of manufacturing and trade.

In the current a situation, the advantages of electronic logistics are evident since it creates new operating models that provides a company with a competitive advantage compared to the companies using conventional logistics. It also permits to develop efficient management of larger entities and correct information in constantly changing market situation.

Nonetheless, it is necessary to emphasize that electronic logistics is a relatively new field and it makes its first steps in the contemporary business. In such a situation, certain obstacles and challenges, the companies implementing electronic logistics face, are quite natural. Among these obstacles and challenges may be singled out the following: scarce financial resources for investments, lack of capabilities of network parties, lack of standards, challenges in integrating inter-company information systems.

However, electronic logistics is still quite popular due to the perspective of business process re-engineering skills, since it provides the possibility to use technologies to support business processes.

Thus, electronic logistics is a very perspective field that needs further research in order to provide better opportunities to its proper implementing and wide use.


