Title: 
How Do You Afford A Receptionist?

Word Count:
365

Summary:
My answer. You can't NOT afford a receptionist. I didn't have one for about 5 years so I know how it is. The day I quit interrupting my clients to answer the phone and quit running behind because I had to book appointments and quit losing clients because I was so backed up I couldn't give them that undivided attention. 

That's when I saw the light. I couldn't afford not to have one. I didn't have to worry about how I was going to pay for her because she immediately paid fo...


Keywords:
business,salon management,salon marketing,receptionist,office


Article Body:
My answer. You can't NOT afford a receptionist. I didn't have one for about 5 years so I know how it is. The day I quit interrupting my clients to answer the phone and quit running behind because I had to book appointments and quit losing clients because I was so backed up I couldn't give them that undivided attention. 

That's when I saw the light. I couldn't afford not to have one. I didn't have to worry about how I was going to pay for her because she immediately paid for herself. Your receptionist is your most valuable position in your salon. 

They can produce more money than anyone behind the chair. Your receptionist must be trained and I can't tell you everything here but this is a few benefits you will see right away. 

1. An increased level of customer service. You will train them to ask every client if they would like a cup of coffee or whatever beverages you have to offer. 

2. They will greet the client professionally within 3 seconds so the client feels welcomed. 

3. They will let the stylist know their client is here and deliver any message the stylist may have for the client. 

4. They will have the client fill out their questionnaire. 

5. input their info in the computer. 

6. Make out their thank you and referral cards. 

7. Give the client a proper check out. 

8. Answer the phones and field or make appointments so know one is interrupted. 

9. Do thorough check outs. 

10. Make sure the client pre books which result in more $s at the end of the year. Because people always take longer to call and book from the time they really need to come in. 

11. More retail sales because they will ask every client how they are doing today on their products. This is just to name a few ways. 

(rental) Educate your renters on all the benefits listed above. I'm sure they will see the light also. If everyone splits the cost it's only a few dollars. Start incorporating the benefit of a receptionist into the price of the rent on everyone you hire from this day forward. Advertise that you provide “assistants & receptionist” to your renters. It's impressive.


