Title: 
How Does Human Resource Management in the Workspace Effect Me?

Word Count:
555

Summary:
A Look at Human Resource Management Issues in the Workplace


Keywords:
HR, Human resources, hr in the workplace


Article Body:
How often do you find yourself saying: "I wish I knew how to learn more about this topic"

Well, we were listening!  And this article is the result.  

Today human resources management is opening up new horizons in many different offices around not only the United States, but the world.  The reason for this is simply supply and demand.  More savvy business owners –even of smaller companies, have understood the value of hiring professionals with experience working in HR.  By doing so, and having HR representatives, companies have learned the importance of solid communication with their workforce

The fact is that Human Resource Management exists just for this purpose –to bridge the gap between staff and upper management.  In doing so, compromises have been attained which preclude the need for unions or outside arbitration, and thus provide the services that employees feel is their right to have 

A company which is not so progressive, on the other hand, neglects HR and the philosophy that goes with it.  The result is, employees abandon any thought of fidelity towards their employer in favor of businesses that reward their service in greater ways.  Examples of this begin at the most basic level of appreciation.  Certificates of recognition awarded on a monthly, bi-yearly, or even yearly basis, for instance, are all that many employees wish. 

Now, pay close attention.  What you're about to read will help you save hours of frustrating, wasted hunting, and let you hone in on some of the best material on this subject!

Of course, on a more pecuniary basis, more constant raises –whether structured and awarded based on time and/or merit, are always welcomed.  Likewise, health benefits are probably the second most important factor, besides these well-earned raises.  The HR department is very often responsible for such aspects in the workspace. 

Yet, this is only the tip of the iceberg.  Surely, the aforementioned has been a part of the American workspace for decades.  What staff in HR try to instill are programs and emotional support that make employees feel a part of a winning, caring team –even a family. 

This has been actualized by programs such as after-work softball and bowling leagues, on-site day care, free fitness memberships, and even after hours bar hopping and social events with the office staff and the boss.  At work, people in HR have implemented office parties where before there were none, office pools, after-hour bingo (for charity or just for fun), and other such activities that create a cohesion within a workforce that makes it extremely difficult for an employee to ever consider leaving.  It is just this feeling that managers and owners are looking for and why HR is so important. 

This field is open to able-minded people of numerous backgrounds.  There is training and certification which is available either in the office or at a local college.  A fast growing field, the opportunities are currently expanding rapidly.  Not only do people working in Human Resources enrich others, but they also benefit their own well-being in knowing that their job truly makes a difference in others' lives.

So, what did you think about this article?  Please drop us a quick note to share your thoughts and comments on it.

For further information, be sure to check out the numerous resources available online on this topic.


