Title: 
How To Save Your Business Money On Cleaning Supplies And Cleaning Services

Word Count:
738

Summary:
With today’s rising fuel costs everything just seems to get a little more expensive every day.  When you own a business you know that every penny saved can help.  Cleaning supplies and cleaning services can eat a big chunk out of your bottom line but there are things you can do to save up to 50% on these types of expenses.  Having your facilities cleaned and having to stock your bathrooms with toilet paper and soap are a necessity but there are ways to save hundreds if not thousands of dollars each year on commercial cleaning and cleaning supplies.


Keywords:
cleaning supplies, soap dispensers, save money cleaning, toilet paper, trash cans


Article Body:
With today’s rising fuel costs everything just seems to get a little more expensive every day.  When you own a business you know that every penny saved can help.  Cleaning supplies and cleaning services can eat a big chunk out of your bottom line but there are things you can do to save up to 50% on these types of expenses.  Having your facilities cleaned and having to stock your bathrooms with toilet paper and soap are a necessity but there are ways to save hundreds if not thousands of dollars each year on commercial cleaning and cleaning supplies.

If you use a cleaning company and your facility is under the size of a football field then you are wasting money.  By paying a cleaning company to come in every night and do simple tasks like vacuuming and emptying trash you are essentially paying a company to make a profit off of something you could be easily doing yourself in house.  By developing a simple plan for your existing employees and having them do some of these tasks can have a huge impact on your cleaning budget.  Simple tasks like taking out the trash at the end of the day can be handed out to your current employees.  By creating a central location as a main trash refugee can make it easy on employees by having them walk a minimal distance to dump there own trash containers at the end of the day.  Many companies are looking to their current staff and advertising cleaning positions for after business hours.  In these financially challenging times many employees would jump at the opportunity to work a few extra hours at night to make a little more income.  By being smart and taking the time to look at what a cleaning company is actually providing you can save a lot of money.

Another big area you can save money in is your restroom supplies.  Every facility has to have restrooms and those restrooms are filled with products that you can save money on.  Some examples of products you can save money on are toilet paper, hand towels and soap.  Toilet paper can get expensive depending on what kind you use.  The price of toilet paper can range from as little as $40 dollars a case to $120 dollars a case.  By purchasing commercial toilet paper which is wound with more length to a roll than regular toilet paper can save you hundreds of dollars over just one year.  Another great way to save money is on soap.  If you purchase soap that can comes in cartridges you may as well have a free money dispenser in your restroom.  Cartridge soaps can cost up to 4 times what bulk gallon soaps cost and take the same amount of time to fill as cartridge dispensers.  Hand towels can easily be replaced by hand dryers.  With hand dryers there is no trash to take out and you can eliminate the cost of replacing paper towel dispensers when they break down.

A great way to save money on cleaning expenses is to question your cleaning bills.  If you are currently having your cleaning company provide your cleaning and sanitary maintenance supplies find out if they are selling you the products at their cost or up charging you.  Many business owners have no clue about how much a case of toilet paper or a case of trash can liners cost.  Some cleaning companies mark up the cleaning products they are selling you by as much as 300% and work it into the bill.  There is nothing wrong with asking your cleaning company for a breakdown of there charges and comparing the prices your being charged with the actual costs of what you can purchase the items at.

As an expert in the cleaning field I talk to a lot of cleaning company owners and see where they live and what they drive.  Some owners live in million dollar houses and drive very expensive cars all from profits they are making from commercial cleaning.   With this being true that means they’re making a lot of money from up charging you for simple services and products that any business owner can buy online or at a local cleaning supply distributor.  So if you’re a business owner and want to save some of your hard earned dollars, take a good look at your cleaning situation and start asking questions right away.


