Title: 
How to Avoid A Corporate Event Nightmare

Word Count:
503

Summary:
The most successful corporate events are those that are well-planned and flawlessly executed. If your company is hosting a customer appreciation event, a team building day or any other type of corporate event, it pays to hire the best corporate event planner you can find to take care of all the details. But how do you choose the best event planners? Here's a checklist of criteria to help you narrow down your choices.


Keywords:



Article Body:
It's like the old dream where you're delivering a speech to a packed house - and suddenly realize that you're standing there with your trousers around your ankles. You've planned the perfect company dinner - and the caterer got the date wrong. Your keynote speaker didn't show up because his travel tickets were never confirmed. And the napkins at the tables don't match the tableskirts. Are your guests going to think 'Oh, their corporate event planners let them down? Of course not! When you plan a large scale corporate event, your company's reputation is on the line. Why would you leave that in unskilled hands?

The most successful corporate events are those that are well-planned and flawlessly executed. If your company is hosting a customer appreciation event, a team building day or any other type of corporate event, it pays to hire the best corporate event planner you can find to take care of all the details. But how do you choose the best event planners? Here's a checklist of criteria to help you narrow down your choices to those corporate event organisers that will deliver an event that your customers and employees will enjoy.

1. If you're new to planning corporate events, ask around among your business colleagues for recommendations. If you attend a grand opening or company dinner that impresses you as well-planned and well-organized, make a note of whether an event planner was used, and which one it was. Excellence has a way of being noted, and word of mouth is the best recommendation you can find.


2. When you interview a corporate event planner, pay as much attention to the questions that they ask as to the answers that they give. A professional will ask questions designed to gauge exactly what YOU want to accomplish with your event so that they can translate your vision into the spectacular event that you have in mind.


3. Ask the right questions to get the information you need to know. How often do they handle events similar to yours? What other corporate events has the firm planned lately?  Do they have experience with the type of event that you want to run? How will they approach your goals for this event?


4. Always ask for references. A professional event planner will be happy to provide you with the names of other clients that you can contact. Just as importantly, they can provide a list of vendors with whom they've worked and have relationships. As in any other business, successful event planning is based on who you know as much as it is on what you know. An expert corporate event planner will have worked extensively with vendors and services in your area. They'll know which companies are reliable and which to avoid.

No matter what the event you're planning, it makes sense to turn to a knowledgeable professional for help with the details. A professional corporate event planner can make running your event painless - so that you can relax and enjoy the evening as much as your guests.


