Title: 
How to Show Your Gratitude: Administrative Professionals Week

Word Count:
427

Summary:
Administrative Professionals Week/Day is celebrated the last week of April.  Let’s show our appreciation to their work efforts.  Here are a few ways how.


Keywords:
Administrative Professionals week, administrative assistant’s day, assistant, secretary’s day, administrative assistant, gift ideas, gift baskets


Article Body:
According to the Department of Labor there are 13 million administrative assistant related jobs in the U.S.  Those dedicated individuals deserve to be celebrated for the support they offer companies all across the nation.  Administrative Professional Week is celebrated the last week of April, with the day being observed on the Wednesday of the given week.  The recognition of these behind the seen workers grows every year.  They are one of the many unsung heroes of the labor force in America.  Let’s show them our appreciation and make this year’s Administrative Professional Week and Day special for all the Administrative Assistants and Secretaries.  Whether they are friends, employees or spouses help show your appreciation for all their hard work. Here are a few ways how.

Send flowers to them at the office.  They can enjoy the scent and beauty for days reminding them of the recognition they have received for all their hard work.

Tuition Reimbursement for anyone who is furthering their education for their present career is a generous and appreciative gift.

Free Lunch or Dinner is always appreciated.  Free lunches and dinner could include a group outing, an office party in the office cafeteria/lunch room or a gift certificate to a favorite restaurant.

Box of Chocolates – Need I say more?  Who couldn’t resist a box of chocolate gourmet truffles?  This is a good gift suggestion for those with many assistants and on a budget.  You can inexpensive boxed chocolates in local grocery stores to gift basket websites.  

Gift Baskets are among one the more popular gift choices and for good reasons.  Gift baskets can be customized to fit an individual’s taste or can be given to a large group to share.  Either way, gift baskets always make great gifts.  For group baskets, try snack gift baskets, fruit baskets, cookie bouquets or candy bouquets.  They look great and come with variety so that everyone is satisfied. Individual gift baskets can range from bath and body gifts, wine baskets, Thank You themed baskets or gourmet gift baskets.

Another stand out appreciation gift would be a plaque.  A plaque is a nice personalized gift that is sure to make any assistant feel special and appreciated.  This is also a gift that can be hung in the office and admired all year round.

Whether you choose any of these gift ideas or not, please remember to celebrate Administrative Professionals Week.  The work force wouldn’t be the same without them.  More importantly, your company, office, job, life wouldn’t be the same without them.


