Title: 
How To Achieve Business Development

Word Count:
588

Summary:
“I am here for a purpose and that purpose is to grow into a mountain, not to shrink to a grain of sand. Henceforth will I apply ALL my efforts to become the highest mountain of all and I will strain my potential until it cries for mercy.”

This line from Og Mandino’s “The Greatest Salesman of the World” emphasizes that life is but a business arena. You meet people, you gain, you lose, you prosper, and you fail. In order for one to make it big, he must equip himself with the...


Keywords:
Business Development


Article Body:
“I am here for a purpose and that purpose is to grow into a mountain, not to shrink to a grain of sand. Henceforth will I apply ALL my efforts to become the highest mountain of all and I will strain my potential until it cries for mercy.”

This line from Og Mandino’s “The Greatest Salesman of the World” emphasizes that life is but a business arena. You meet people, you gain, you lose, you prosper, and you fail. In order for one to make it big, he must equip himself with the three BEs. BE reliable, BE confident and BE brave.

Like life, these three BEs are essential in making it well in business development. An individual’s triumph depends on how he or she veils his or her persona with the winner’s advantage over all the pressing competition. In the world of business, you must lay down all your positive points and maximize them.

BE RELIABLE

Reliability builds trust. Trust is the main reason why people do business with another. Trust is established not by what you promise to your clients. It is not existent if you announce the wonders of your goods. There are underlying proofs of trust.

Reliability is being founded in many ways. For many, the psychology which is: popular name sells still breathes. Yes, products or services which have been staying and garnering good sales are really tough to beat. In the long run, having the thought of advantage, they play immature sometimes. They try to use any means though it is not of sense because they think the popularity will save them. This is not the right approach to having reliability as a niche.

True reliability means understanding the clients or customers. With this, you must know their concerns and problems and provide them with solutions. This is the real source of reliability and trust will not be that far.

BE CONFIDENT

Confidence means belief in one’s abilities and the thought that he could do it. Being confident in business development is important. Knowing what to do, how to do it and how it works for one’s advantage is a result of confidence. Confidence which is existent in his self and in one’s business development process needs studying, learning and practicing I order to be achieved.

Confidence is maintaining a good performance even under pressure. It does not solely mean knowing what to do in your business development method but knowing how to do it. Having the knowledge, we use that to learn and practice. Upon trying it on, there will be some errors and corrections. In the end, we will be more confident. Being confident is not perfection but you are a step closer.

BE BRAVE

Bravery means having the confidence to face and accept the dangerous and difficult challenges in the world of business. In business development, being brave roots from being confident. When one has the confidence he is able to stand on his feet as he thinks that he could really make the best out of every test he encounters.

Bravery believes that in business development, we could help customers out. Believing that you can provide solutions to their problems no matter how tough it is signals the presence of bravery. Bravery comes in many guises. In business, it is the courage to venture and believe you could give solutions.

These three BEs will help you become the greatest salesman not only in the field of business but beyond. Yes, life itself.


