Title: 
How to Make Money By Becoming A Commercial Cleaning Consultant

Word Count:
557

Summary:
With a large boom of new businesses over the past 5 years cleaning consultants are making a lot of money.  What is a cleaning consultant?  A cleaning consultant is a person that analyzes a companies cleaning expenditures and recommends ways to save money on their cleaning expenses.  A cleaning consultant can make money both from the businesses that are being analyzed and referral fees charged to cleaning companies for referrals.


Keywords:
janitorial supplies, clenaing supplies, cleaning products, cleaning consultant, make money cleaning


Article Body:
With a large boom of new businesses over the past 5 years cleaning consultants are making a lot of money.  What is a cleaning consultant?  A cleaning consultant is a person that analyzes a companies cleaning expenditures and recommends ways to save money on their cleaning expenses.  A cleaning consultant can make money both from the businesses that are being analyzed and referral fees charged to cleaning companies for referrals.

Becoming a cleaning consultant is relatively easy.  The first thing to do is gain knowledge about how cleaning companies work, the services they provide and current rates for cleaning in your area.  If you look in the phone book there is an abundance of cleaning companies in every city nationwide.  Most of these companies would gladly pay you a referral fee for a cleaning account because of fierce competition in the commercial cleaning industry today.  On the opposite end most business will pay you a consulting fee for saving them money on their cleaning needs.  When you have researched the commercial cleaning market in your area its time to set up a few cleaning comapanies as referral clients.  The easy way to accomplish this is to pick a few smaller commercial cleaning companies who are just starting out.  Set up and agree on a referral fee with these comapanies for each of the businesses that you send their way.  It is advisable to choose cleaning companies that represent different areas of the cleaning market.  An example of these different areas would be a cleaning company that provides basic cleaning needs, carpet cleaning companies and duct cleaning companies.  Make sure to pick at least three companies in these cleaning categories so that you can have them compete for the lowest pricing possible.

After you have agreed on a referral fee from these cleaning companies its time to approach businesses that need cleaning services.  A great way to approach a business is to offer a guarantee that if you don't save them money you don't get paid.  The basic plan is to analyze what they are currently spending on their cleaning needs and suggest ways that they can save money by utilizing the cleaning companies you represent.  Take a good look at every dollar they spend on cleaning including cleaning labor, janitorial supplies used for cleaning and basic sanitary supplies such as restroom products and waste management needs.  Once you have made a list and priced out each of their commercial cleaning expenditures its time to create bids for the cleaning companies that you have recruited.  Be detailed when submitting cleaning bids to these companies and spell out the standards of each cleaning task that is to be performed.  Once they have filled out bids compare them for the lowest pricing and present the winners to the businesses that need to be cleaned.

A great extra way to make money being a cleaning consultant is to also provide sources for the cleaning and janitorial supplies that are needed for a facility.  Contact local and internet janitorial supply houses for the best prices on products and make up a small catalog that you can present to both your commercial cleaning associates and the businesses that are being cleaned.  Overall being a cleaning consultant is a win win situation for everybody involved with opportunities for you to make some good money also.


