Title: 
Merchant Services

Word Count:
522

Summary:
Can merchant services make a difference in the way you do business? You bet they can! A merchant services account can equip you to conduct e-commerce with the latest credit card processing technology. You may be able to manage your company with fewer employees to handle billing and collect payments when you implement technical credit processing equipment that can save you time and money. In addition, a merchant account will place you in the ranks of your industry’s foremost p...


Keywords:
Merchant Services


Article Body:
Can merchant services make a difference in the way you do business? You bet they can! A merchant services account can equip you to conduct e-commerce with the latest credit card processing technology. You may be able to manage your company with fewer employees to handle billing and collect payments when you implement technical credit processing equipment that can save you time and money. In addition, a merchant account will place you in the ranks of your industry’s foremost professionals, adding status to stature. 

Find out if your company’s bank offers merchant services. If it does, ask about the acceptance criteria and consider making an application there. If not, however, you can find literally dozens or hundreds of lenders who are looking for customers like you to whom they can offer a merchant services account. The lenders charge fees that can take many forms, including an online application expense or an annual membership fee; perhaps both or even others might be required for your to receive the account. Being able to hold merchant status, though, might be worth the cost of such fees, since you will be able to accept credit card payments with the help of specialized technology and a gateway liaison. Your merchant account lender will process each credit card payment for you and deposit the money in your company’s bank account. Your fees for this service may be billed or automatically deducted as worked out in advance with the lender. 

How can merchant services help your business? For one thing, a merchant services account will let you install a credit card processor at your place of business to accept credit payments onsite. Many consumers today prefer the convenience of paying by credit card, and they will love the fact that your company is keeping up with current trends and technology. Another way that merchant services can assist your business is by providing telephone dial-in credit card payment technology. You won’t even have to staff each phone call with a person to answer and manage the payment. An automated recording will guide your customers through the credit card payment process. 

Many business owners who want to widen the path to welcome new clients are using merchant services to set up a company Website. There they can display all the company’s products and pricelists, along with a FAQ page and testimonials that can provide customers with extra details and helpful information. Your Website can become your company’s window on the world to invite potential new customers to come and have a look around. If they decide to order, they can do so immediately, making it easy for them to get the price they want and for your to get paid quickly. After a successful first “shopping trip,” they are likely to return repeatedly for easy, prompt transactions. 

Obtaining a merchant services account is a great way to move your business to the next level of expertise. Accepting credit card payments will be beneficial to your customers and great for you, too. Find out if you are eligible to apply for local or international merchant services.


