Title: 
Pallets - Cut Your Pallet Costs

Word Count:
376

Summary:
Can you save money by switching from new timber pallets to some other type? How many new pallets do you purchase each year? How many times is each one used? Is there a more environmentally friendly alternative?

Plastic and wooden pallets for storing and moving produce save businesses time, expense and energy. A wide range of durable pallets has become more readily available as local pallet producing companies expand their services to the Internet.

Therefore you are like...


Keywords:
pallets, warehousing logistics, plastic pallets


Article Body:
Can you save money by switching from new timber pallets to some other type? How many new pallets do you purchase each year? How many times is each one used? Is there a more environmentally friendly alternative?

Plastic and wooden pallets for storing and moving produce save businesses time, expense and energy. A wide range of durable pallets has become more readily available as local pallet producing companies expand their services to the Internet.

Therefore you are likely to have a choice between new, reconditioned or recycled pallets, timber or plastic construction. Common sizes for pallets are between 20 times 28 inches up to 48 times 72 inches (800mm times 1200mm and 1000mm times 1200mm.)

Other desirable features include stackable pallets, pallets made with hygienic materials that are practical for use with food products, UL fire safety rated pallets, lidded or belted pallets and high strength reinforced pallets.

If your business works with food or agricultural produce in the United States, it is important to make sure the pallets are compliant with the Food and Drug Administration and The United States Dairy Associations standard of pallet safety. Pallets should also be lightweight and easy to lift and handle to limit the possibility of injury to your employees.

With more and more industries and customers becoming concerned with the environmental impact a business has, re-using and re-cycling pallets is an increasingly commonplace and cost effective alternative to buying new.

Environmentalists are particularly concerned with the use of wooden pallets, as the amount of softwood employed by industry in some countries is not sustainable, and much of it goes into the manufacture of wooden pallets.

However, since many businesses find themselves with excess pallets (wooden and plastic) depending on the season or market fluctuations, it is very simple to buy pallets used or to sell your own used pallets.

Some companies will buy used pallets for up to four dollars each, depending on how many there are and the condition the pallets are in - and additionally of course whether there is such a company convenient to the location of your business. Alternatively, buy long-life pallets that will not need replacing as often.

There are said to be two billion pallets in circulation worldwideso re-using good quality pallets makes a lot of sense.


