Title: 
Project Management - Dealing With Information Overload

Word Count:
331

Summary:
Project management is an ever evolving field, and we are only seeing the begining of perhaps a vast transformation sometime in the near future. Find out how to keep abreast of the goings on in this industry.


Keywords:
free project management software, employee time tracking software, project management consulting, project management program


Article Body:
You probably are aware by now how critical project management is for your bottom line. Organizations all over are tuning in to the effect of project management to meet it's defects in the face of astronomical demands posed by the digital age.

Right now professionals are required to perpetually learn the bleeding edge project management techniques including perhaps pursuing the project management professional status or PMP for short. 

This identification involves a rigorous examination process as well as grueling course of study. Experience levels within the actual field of project management itself is also critical to attain this coveted status. Once a professional has arrived at it, he or she must retake certification updates it every now and then in order to be able to continue to use that designation.

This certification was created by the Project Management Institute which is considered the world's leading authoritative organization when it comes to the occupation of project management.

So as a current or future PMP, how does one keep up-to-date with such a vast array of references that's available and growing (beyond the internet, intranet, and proprietary knowledge)? One thing you can do is use RSS readers to organize and keep up to date with your favorite blogs and news feeds which allows you to keep up to date with the entire industry within a glance.

The nice thing about reading blogs from various project management and PMP certified pros is that you will get an insiders view into various cultures, industries, and corporate policies as it relates to the application of the Project Management body of knowledge.

Be sure to join local networking clubs within your area to pick the brains of some of the thought leaders and executives who are focused on this stringent subject. This is one of the best ways to stay ahead and learn tricks of the trade that will literally save you hundreds upon hundreds of hours of time through learning by way of trial and error.


