Title: 
Protect Your Business Card Investment

Word Count:
327

Summary:
Business cards can cost upwards of $200 for a set of 1000 nicely printed cards. That price can be quickly increased with special shapes, rounded corners, raised foil lettering, metal or plastic cards and various other exciting new features.

With an expensive product comes the need to protect your investment. That is where a business card case comes into play. Business card cases are usually metal cases that protect your business cards from the daily wear and tear of being ...


Keywords:
free,business,cards,card,case,holder,protect,save,money,spend,cash,wah,wahm,sahm,sah


Article Body:
Business cards can cost upwards of $200 for a set of 1000 nicely printed cards. That price can be quickly increased with special shapes, rounded corners, raised foil lettering, metal or plastic cards and various other exciting new features.

With an expensive product comes the need to protect your investment. That is where a business card case comes into play. Business card cases are usually metal cases that protect your business cards from the daily wear and tear of being in your pocket, in your car, or in your briefcase.

Business card cases come in one size, slightly larger than a business card and they usually snap shut. Most cases can hold between 25 and 50 regular sized business cards. Without a business card case, your business cards risk getting damaged on a regular basis.

If you are paying a considerable amount of money for your business cards, it only makes sense to protect them. Business card cases can be as inexpensive as $15 and can range up to $100 for a custom engraved business card case.

If you spent $200 on 1000 business cards, and that business card case saves your from trashing 100 cards per year, it has paid for itself after only a few months. However, a good business card case will last you a few years. I have had mine for 4 years now, it is a little worn down, but still serves its original purpose.

Business card cases can also be used a selling tool. You can have them custom engraved, so they can make a great business gift to a potential client. You could have this prospects name engraved on the business card case and send him a note that says, "Thank you for considering using our company for your computer networking needs".

This gesture could be the tipping point for that prospect and close the deal.

Business card cases not only protect your business cards, but they also save you money by not having to buy business cards as often!


