Title: 
Psychological Training

Word Count:
369

Summary:
Why Train?

Simple really: training improves skills, techniques, knowledge and attitude whatever an individual's role within an organisation. Ongoing staff training and development is crucial if you want to improve business performance and meet your targets.

Without a well-trained, skilled team your business won't grow and prosper. But there are a number of initiatives to ensure your staff have the right knowledge and experience required.

When a company develops a lea...


Keywords:
Management, Business, Training


Article Body:
Why Train?

Simple really: training improves skills, techniques, knowledge and attitude whatever an individual's role within an organisation. Ongoing staff training and development is crucial if you want to improve business performance and meet your targets.

Without a well-trained, skilled team your business won't grow and prosper. But there are a number of initiatives to ensure your staff have the right knowledge and experience required.

When a company develops a learning culture, staff feel motivated to participate in it, resulting in an improvement in individual and collective performance. Morale will be raised, problems solved, efficiency improved and goals attained all because of the practical ability, confidence and motivation that effective training builds.

There is, however, a bewildering array of training events and self-taught training materials. Some of these events and materials may be inappropriate as they do not fulfil the skill and information needs of your staff. Some courses may be legally inaccurate, as they do not contain up-to date information on important relevant educational legislation of which staff need to be aware.

Ensuring that staff develop as educators, team members and individuals increases their sense of worth within your organisation, reducing staff turnover rates. Providing appropriate and ongoing training assists in maintaining the high quality of their work and output.

Psychological Training

Have you ever wondered what makes top performers excel time after time? The answer is they are not only highly competent; they are also psychologically fit.

These people have learnt to become - and stay – focused, resilient, confident and committed. This means they have that extra drive to perform in today’s highly demanding world of work. Psychological fitness, like physical fitness, can be learnt. It sits at the heart of a suite of programmes, each of which provides practical and sustainable tools to develop and enhance psychological fitness.

Together with complementary skills and knowledge, they provide the drivers for action in a wide range of contexts. In association with the Human Dimension, Phoenix are able to provide all your staff with the practical tools to perform at a higher level by enhancing their psychological fitness. Its application is extremely varied but recent workshops have been centred around Leadership, Change Management, Team Development, Tackling Absenteeism and Stress.


