Title: 
Quick Quiz - Measure Your Meeting Mastery

Word Count:
324

Summary:
How effective are your meetings. Take this quiz to find out.


Keywords:
effective meetings, bad meetings, business meeting, facilitation, steve kaye, facilitator, leadership, one great meeting


Article Body:
Here’s an easy quiz to check the health of your meetings.

1) Who leads your meetings? -- a) No one, b) Whoever has the loudest voice, c) A facilitator

2) What happens to the ideas in your meetings? -- a) If we had to think of ideas, it would be work, b) We make fun of them, c) A scribe writes them on a chart pad

3) Are results obtained in your meetings? -- a) We eat all the donuts, b) And we drink all of the coffee, c) Yes!

4) Do your meetings have an agenda? -- a) Is that some kind of cabinet?, b) I saw one once in an article, c) Yes!

5) Who attends your meetings? -- a) We have bleachers to hold spectators, b) The entire staff plus any homeless people in the neighborhood, c) Only those who can contribute

6) How long are your meetings? -- a) I’ll let you know when this one ends, b) All day, c) An hour or less

7) During a meeting do you: -- a) Break a foam cup into bits, b) Prepare for the next meeting, c) Focus on the topic

8) How soon after the meeting do you issue minutes? -- a) If you think I want to publicize how much time we wasted, you’re nuts, b) Within a few months or so, c) As soon as possible, if not faster

9) While someone is speaking, do you: -- a) Wonder about the strength of plastic foams, b) Plan a way to change the subject, c) Listen empathetically

10) What structured activities do you use in your meetings? -- a) We sit on chairs, b) Everyone leaves at the same time, c) Process tools designed to gather information, make decisions, and manage participation.

Score: subtract five points for every (a), mark a zero for every (b), and add five points for every (c).

If your total is:

* Negative: Go to your boss and ask to be fired

* Zero to 20: Stay home

* 25 to 35: Attend a workshop

* 40 to 50: Congratulations


