Title: 
Rescuing concrete floors from holes and adhesives

Word Count:
400

Summary:
As companies attempt to retrofit floor spaces and walls, carpeting and vinyl tile are often removed or repositioned. These renovations usually end up exposing large areas of adhesives, underlayments, and
sprawling holes from anchors, studding, and equipment. Now there is a solution with step by step instructions and help.


Keywords:
Concrete floor coatings, industrial flooring, garage floor seals, building maintenance, facilities management, flood resistant, mold resistant.


Article Body:
As companies attempt to retrofit floor spaces and walls, carpeting and vinyl tile are often removed or repositioned. These renovations usually end up exposing large areas of adhesives, underlayments, and
sprawling holes from anchors, studding, and equipment. Now there is a solution with step by step instructions and help.

Remodelers often can see no alternative but to reinstall similar adhesives and floor coverings like carpet and tile. This is unfortunate because hard epoxy, urethane, and glass emulsion surfaces offer less expensive and longer wearing alternatives.

If concrete is exposed to wear, it will eventually deteriorate. Friction wear, erosion, and contamination all play a role. Dust, cracks, crumbling, rough surfaces, and the inability to keep the environment clean are symptoms of a floor that has not been  protected and is moving towards an unserviceable condition. Carpeting often holds contaminants in place and can be a growth medium for mold and mildew. Vinyl tile cannot hold up under heavy wheeled traffic, is subject to lifting when wet, and has a soft finish which can be contaminated by solvents and dyes. In contrast, laminated epoxy coatings create a wear-barrier between a floor and its environment. These laminated surfaces not only keep the concrete from deteriorating but also provide a protective plate over it. Contaminants and hazards, like PCBs, heavy metals, and toxic chemicals, are kept away from the porous concrete. Properly applied, these laminated surfaces can provide decades of protection and service.

Epoxy coated floors can cure, rather than just cover over, the holes that exist in even the most devastated floors. Customers are often surprised how holes from old walls and equipment stands can be made
to disappear when filled with 100% solid epoxy and then ground flush. The process is quick, easy, and long lasting.

 Supplies that may be needed include adhesive removers, oil removing detergents, and durable long lasting epoxy fillers for holes, joints, cracks, and crumbling surfaces. Kits of materials can be customized to owner specification and delivered directly to the job site. Kits include full directions and 24/7 help
lines staffed by seasoned flooring experts, so professionals and amateurs alike can successfully install a quality floor.

Web visitors can obtain free, job-specific quotes on materials or nationwide turnkey installations by completing a simple questionnaire at www.concrete-floor-coatings.com.

For photo examples and more detail, visit www.concrete-floor-coatings.com

For more information, contact Harvey Chichester at: harvey@concrete-floor-coatings.com

Phone: 1-800-466-8910 or 952-888-1488 (24/7)
###


