Title: 
Solid Time Management For Net Marketers

Word Count:
410

Summary:
There are an endless number of ways an individual can get organized and make the most of their time. Here is the very simple method I use to keep my day to day efforts on track.

I have created a daily checklist that covers all my basic tasks. Here is my list, and a brief description of each component.

1. Administrative Duties - First thing out of bed, I check all admin email accounts and respond to every message. This includes member/downline support, answering question...


Keywords:
time management, internet marketing, home business


Article Body:
There are an endless number of ways an individual can get organized and make the most of their time. Here is the very simple method I use to keep my day to day efforts on track.

I have created a daily checklist that covers all my basic tasks. Here is my list, and a brief description of each component.

1. Administrative Duties - First thing out of bed, I check all admin email accounts and respond to every message. This includes member/downline support, answering questions from prospects, confirming received payments, and any other vital correspondence that needs to be taken care of. I continue to check my email every hour throughout the day, so no response gets neglected.

2. Promoting - The next thing I do is work my advertising strategy. This includes posting ads to safelists, surfing or buying credits at some of my favorite traffic exchanges, monitoring any pay per click or banner campaigns I have underway, and checking my tracking stats. I also try to spend a little time each day looking for new advertising options to test.

3. Networking - Working my leads, participating in forums, swapping links, approaching new contacts; this is what it's all about, right? I can't allow myself to slip into robot mode, where I just sit and click all day. I have to spend time every day networking with other marketers. This is how I learn, grow, and profit from my efforts.

4. Development - This component covers making improvements to my website, composing my newsletter, building new banners, writing new ad copy, etc.

5. Reading - I spend at least 15 minutes per day reading. The goals here are education and inspiration. I might read a good javascript tutorial, or maybe just browse through a few marketing lessons. I feel it's very important to learn a little something everyday, and to keep my mind in the proper state for successful marketing and living.

I make every effort to address each item on this list before the end of my workday. The feeling of productivity I have gained from this simple exercise is amazing. I still wish there was more time in a day, but at least I have a definite, realistic outline of what to strive for.

Spending a few minutes to come up with your own checklist would be time well spent. Give yourself a concrete idea of what needs to get done each day, and you will not only improve your results, you will gain peace of mind.


