Title: 
Strategic Business Planning While You're Still Working

Word Count:
383

Summary:
Strategic business planning is very important to your business success. The key to successfully transitioning from employee to business owner is the quality and thoroughness of your strategic business planning.


Keywords:
Strategic Business Planning, Strategic-Business-Planning


Article Body:
Strategic business planning is very important to your business success.  The perfect time to do your strategic business planning is when you are transitioning from full time work to a consulting business.  You won't feel pressured to get things done too quickly because there is still money coming in.  

When you start your strategic business planning early you have the time you need to get all the elements of your business prepared before launch.  90 days is a good timeframe to give yourself for strategic business planning.  You can get everything you need to do done and you are not giving yourself too much time to put off the launch. 

Some of the most important items you should be covering off during your transition time are listed in the Strategic Business Plan Checklist below:

Strategic Business Plan Checklist
Networking
Start looking around for networking events.  Get them on your calendar and plan on start going a few events within the next few weeks to get your name out there.
Start telling everyone that you know to listen up for people whining about PC problems
Marketing
Think about a niche you c an build for yourself. Are there are any areas/industries/types of businesses, etc... that are under served in your community? 
Business Basics
Develop a company name - make it memorable but not obscure.  
Get all your paperwork together including contracts, forms, agreements, etc...
Develop and print business cards - take piles of them to networking events
Develop a website - populate it with useful information as well as your marketing information

These elements form the basics of your strategic business planning process.  By attending to these business basics you will be in great position to prepare for launch.

The Bottom Line On Strategic Business Planning

Strategic business planning will take you from thinking about starting a business to actually doing the things you need to do to get a business going.  The longer you put off your strategic business planning process, the longer it is until you launch.  Use the transition time between your work and business launch to do the strategic business planning you need to do to be successful long term.

Copyright MMI-MMVI, PC Support Tips .com. All Worldwide Rights Reserved. {Attention Publishers: Live hyperlink in author resource box required for copyright compliance}


