Title: 
What Is Backfile Document Scanning?

Word Count:
306

Summary:
Backfile Document Scanning is scanning your recent and archived paper files, documents, blueprints or any other paper and converting them into an electronic format, giving you the ability to access them via your PC, network, or even online using the World Wide Web.

Most companies after some investigation find that the resources required to start their own backfile scanning processes are very costly in more ways then one, and that most times the lack of accuracy and the amo...


Keywords:
document,scanning,management,software,services,paperless,backfile,day forwarding


Article Body:
Backfile Document Scanning is scanning your recent and archived paper files, documents, blueprints or any other paper and converting them into an electronic format, giving you the ability to access them via your PC, network, or even online using the World Wide Web.

Most companies after some investigation find that the resources required to start their own backfile scanning processes are very costly in more ways then one, and that most times the lack of accuracy and the amount of time your staff will devote to the project is more costly to your business by pulling them away from their normal everyday tasks. Deciding to implement a "paperless office" is very beneficial, and the day-forward aspect of scanning in all the new documents increases your productivity.

Most companies who decide to move towards a "paperless office" face backfile scanning issues and this is very common.
What options are there? Which one is right for you?

In-House vs. Outsourcing: How to Choose

1. Purchase an in-house system and direct your staff in an on-site backfile scanning and conversion process.

2. Purchase an in-house system and direct a vendor’s staff in doing the preparation, scanning, and indexing on-site.

3. Contract with a vendor to operate their system, using their staff at your site.

4. Send your files and documents off-site for scanning and indexing, making them available via CD, DVD, or on the Web.

Most organizations differ in their availability of staffing, resources, and goals. In a private study, a group examined the broad issue of electronic document management and backfile scanning. The group identified these four general combinations of in-house and outsourced services to consider. The first three required dedicating space in-house, the first two required purchasing and maintaining equipment, and the first required hiring more full-time employees.

Only the fourth option relieves all the burdens of the first three.


