Title: 
Why Team Building Is Vital to Your Success

Word Count:
385

Summary:
Team building is one of the newest and most potent management strategies to come along in years. Learn why creating a team environment is vital to your organization's success.


Keywords:
team building, team building activities


Article Body:
Great teamwork is one of the most important keys to your company’s success. The more harmoniously people work together, the better it is for your company. Teamwork is the way that things get done these days – and if you don’t have a cohesive team, you’re seriously handicapping your company out in the marketplace. According to Wikipedia, team building is necessary for success because it’s unnatural for people to come together in a new group and immediately begin to get along. Throughout history, building a team has been the function of shared experiences and history. When that experience and history is lacking, it’s difficult for a group to share a common vision and goal, or to function together in a way that promotes the best qualities of each team participant. In other words – to function as a team.

Getting your employees to stop thinking of each other as competitors and start working as a team isn’t quite as easy as it sounds, but it is vital if you want to be a powerful force in your business. Among the advantages of team building are the following:

1.	Teams are more successful in implementing complex plans and strategies. Because you can split the work into responsibility areas, a team can tackle more complex projects more efficiently than a group of individuals.

2.	Teams come up with more creative solutions because they can network and brainstorm. When team members bounce ideas off of each other, they arrive at solutions that none would have evolved alone. As teams continue to work together, many of them find that their individual work benefits from their new ability to see things from other perspectives.

3.	Teams build commitment to ideas and plans because they have ownership of the idea. When a team is involved in a project from the start, they are more likely to be committed to the ideals it represents.

4.	Teams are more enduring than reliance on individuals. If you have one person who is responsible for a project, the loss of that person can cripple the project. When you rely on a team, the loss of one individual may be difficult, but the work of the team will continue.

5.	Team building activities motivate your employees to deliver their very best effort on behalf of the team.


