Designer Sunglasses

When it comes to fashion, designer sunglasses are "hot!"  Paris Hilton or the Olsen twins can be seen, just about anywhere in Hollywood, day or night, wearing the latest in designer sunglasses.  When they walk the red carpet and they are asked, "What are you wearing?" they might lower their sunglasses down on their noses and peer over the rims and drop designer names like Vera Wang, Dior, Valentino, Gucci and Armani.

Stars like Donald Trump and Britney Spears have their own name brand sunglasses on the market while others may be wearing Marc Jacobs or Armani sunglasses for a classy look or Baby Phat for punk style.  The mood for the day might be for the retro 1950's look of Fossil sunglasses.

Your favorite clothing designer may also be the designer of the sunglasses that you choose to accessorize your brand-name clothing.   For instance, the smart Tommy dresser can add to the look of a Tommy Hilfiger clothing ensemble with Tommy Hilfiger sunglasses.  For casual wear, Kate Spade sunglasses might do nicely.   Carrera is known for a sporty look.  For a sensual mood, Valentino  frames that have smooth round edges and Swarovsky crystals might just put you (or whoever is looking at you) in the mood.

Trendy, cool-looking name-brand or designer sunglasses, if you can afford them, are a status symbol showing everyone that you have the cash (or credit card) to buy them.  However, in order to be fashionable in sunglasses, you do not have to give up quality.  Sunglasses, not being just fashionable accessories, are used to protect your eyes from damage caused by the sun's UV (ultra-violet) rays.  Designer prescription sunglasses can improve vision, and reduce eyestrain, just like ordinary glasses.

Quality designer sunglasses can be polarized to reduce the glare of the sunlight reflecting off surfaces like the highway, cars, water or snow.  Polarized sunglasses work by blocking off the horizontal light reflections and only let in vertical light reflections.  The polarization of designer sunglasses makes them fashionable in other areas of lifestyle like golfing, boating, biking, swimming, fishing and aircraft flying.

Marketers of designer sunglasses target children who enjoy the same hot styles and brand-names as their parents and their idols.  Sunglasses for children have Disney and cartoon characters in many colors, shapes and styles.  Children's designer sunglasses can also be polarized to block the harmful UV radiation.  Sunglasses should be part of children's daily wear as they play outside and engage in outdoor sports and activities.  Sunglasses can prevent them from the long-term affects of sun damage to their eyes.

When most people grab a pair of sunglasses, they are only thinking about shading their eyes or looking cool.  Sunglasses in any shade, shape or size, by any name may be a "hot" fashion accessory for trend-setting stars, men, women and children, but the importance of protecting the eyes from damage far outweighs the importance of looking cool.  The next time you head out in the sunshine, be sure to grab your designer polarized sunglasses and give some thought to the fact that you and your sunglasses are protecting your eyes and your eye sight.  Seeing is cool.
