How to Shop for Sunglasses

When choosing the sunglasses that best fit you, three factors should be considered.  First and foremost, sunglasses are used to protect your eyes.  A pair of sunglasses that offer no protection can actually be more harm than good.  Secondly, your sunglasses should feel comfortable.  Finally, you want to look good in your shades, so pick a pair with some consideration of style.

Sunglasses can be made of many different varieties of materials.  These materials also carry with them different levels of protection.  As you sift through the masses, remember that protection is the reason you are wearing sunglasses.  Find out about the level of UV ray protection they offer and avoid those that cannot provide 99-100% protection from UVA and UVB radiation.

Dark sunglasses do less for your eyes than you think.  A darker tint makes it more comfortable for you to see in the bright sun.  However, if those dark glasses fail in offering the protection you need from harmful rays, they may be causing more harm than good.  Dark shaded sunglasses make it easier for you to open your eyes, allowing UVA and UVB rays greater access to your eyes to cause more damage.  If forced to choose, you are better off with a pair of sunglasses with UVA protection and a light gray tint than in dark lenses with no UVA protection.

There are also additional measures you can take with your sunglasses to help protect your baby blues (Or your greens, browns and grays.  They're all equally important!)  Many sunglasses have a wrap-around design that widens around the temples and appears to wrap around your head.  This design blocks the sun from the sides of your face, offering greater protection than smaller framed glasses.  If your precious eyesight is not enough to convince you to be choosey about your sunglasses, consider one more thing.  When you squint your eyes, you are causing your forehead and sides of your face to wrinkle.  No one wants crow's feat before their time.

After protection, comfort is the next most important part of picking out your eyewear.  Consider the tint of the lens.  For very bright settings where the sun has surfaces to reflect off of, polarized lenses may be helpful.  Polarized sunglasses reduce the glare caused by the sun hitting the water, snow or other surface.  Even though you may be blocking out the harmful UVA and UVB rays, you're not going to care much if you can't see anything.

When you try on sunglasses, pay attention to how they feel on your face.  Does the nosepiece rest firmly on the bridge of your nose without sliding?  Is the frame a good fit for your face and rests gently over your ears?  This is a helpful checklist when sunglass shopping.    If the sunglasses are going to cause you discomfort, you'll be more likely to take them off.  If that's the case, why have them in the first place?

Although it should never be your number one consideration, fashion should be a factor in the selection of your sunglasses.  It is not absolutely necessary that you wear the designs you see celebrities sporting at all times.  Those shades may be easier to find than others, but they're not the only ones out there.  Pick frames that flatter the shape of your face and complement your style.

A good rule of thumb is to choose a frame shape that is the opposite of your facial shape.  A round face goes well with a pair of oval or square sunglasses.  The worst shape for the round face is a pair of round frames.  Likewise, an thinner or longer face looks great with a pair of round frame sunglasses, but not so much with a square set of frames.  Oval shaped faces have their pick of shapes, they are the most versatile.  "Lucky!"

Just be smart when shopping for sunglasses.  Remember what you're buying them for, and pick styles that complement you.  When you choose sunglasses based on these three factors your eyes will thank you.  They'll be protected, stylish, happy, and you will be too.
