Retro Sunglasses, the Way to Go

When it comes to sunglasses, is retro the way to go?  You are probably seeing a lot of different designs of shades these days, are they new?  Truthfully, there are really no new designs, just redesigns of a formerly popular style.  In the fashion world, retro designs are everywhere--and sunglasses are no exception.

One design that has poked its head back into the fashion world is well known all over.  Onassis Glasses, or the Jackie-O design sunglasses were popularized by the former First Lady Kennedy.  After becoming Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, she flaunted this oversized style of sunglasses all over the globe.  The style was so closely associated with her, that it has shared her name since the late seventies.

After fading from the public eye, the Onassis Glasses lay dormant for about thirty years.  However, poised for a comeback, these sunglasses have begun making waves on red carpets and runways all over.  The women credited for bringing back the infamous sunglasses are Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton.  Since then, Jackie-O's have been seen on the faces of famous women and trendy-but-average Janes everywhere.

Another retro design of sunglasses that has made big waves recently is the cleverly named Aviators.  Originally designed in the 1930's for military pilots, Aviators were hot on fashionable faces in the 1960's and 1980's.  True to their every-twenty-year trend, Aviators are back with avengance and have been favorites for men, and women, with style.  It is particularly true that this style of sunglasses has caught on with the younger "MTV Crowd" more than with adults.  Johnny Knoxville has adapted Aviators as his signature style.

Some styles of sunglasses have briefly shown themselves in fashion, only to never be heard from again.  This is not necessarily a bad thing.  There are those sunglasses the human race still feels a little silly about.  However, let's not speak too soon.  These sunglasses could be waiting in the wings for their triumphant return.

OVER-Oversized sunglasses are one fashion faux-pa most of us would rather not make.  The design is a retro tribute to the late Lady O when they are slightly oversized and conservative.  However, when the sunglasses appear to be attempting to take over your face, you may have crossed the line into ridiculous.  Save the supersized look for clowns and put this design back in the vault.

Another design that some hope will never return carries a soft spot in the hearts of many women.  The Wayfarer sunglasses were first made popular by Hollywood's bad boy, James Dean.  After his death, these sunglasses were worn for a time, before slowly falling by the wayside to make room for the newer styles.

However, the Wayfarer was gone but not forgotten.  The sunglasses made a double comeback on the faces of James Belushi and Dan Aykroyd, better known in the eighties as the Blues Brothers.  The sunglasses with a clean black, square design were a perfect complement to their all black suits, hats and ties.  

Wayfarers made one more comeback in 1983 when a sock and underwear clad young man slid into the living room and into our hearts.  Before Tom Cruise was the controversial figure he is today, he was a hot high school graduate just trying to get into a good college.  The Wayfarers sunglasses haven't been much on the fashion scene since then, but we've never forgotten.

It's hard to tell what may come next in the world of fashion sunglasses.  If you really want to keep up with it, just check the fashion magazines in early spring and see what new old styles are unfolding.  You may have seen them all before, but these retro sunglasses are bound to have a new and exciting twist.
