Sunglasses are "Hot!"

When it comes to fashion, sunglasses are "hot!"  What can be hotter than George Clooney as Danny Ocean wearing designer sunglasses in the Oceans movies?   Paris Hilton or the Olsen twins can be seen, just about anywhere in Hollywood, day or night, wearing the latest in designer sunglasses.  When they walk the red carpet and they are asked, "What are you wearing?" they might lower their sunglasses down on their noses and peer over the rims and drop designer names like Vera Wang, Dior, Valentino, Gucci and Armani.

As an attention-getting accessory or fashion statement, designer or custom sunglasses are nothing new.  Trendsetters like Marilyn Monroe, Elvis Presley, and Elton John sported designer and custom sunglasses as part of their "look" or star status.  Some have worn sunglasses to hide behind, cover their drug-affected eyes, or make a statement.  Pictures of Elvis Presley reveal that he had sunglasses custom-made for him with his initials or the letters TCB (Taking Care of Business) built right into the nose bridge.   

Stars like Sophia Loren, Donald Trump, and Britney Spears have their own name brand sunglasses on the market while others may be wearing Marc Jacobs or Armani sunglasses for a classy look or Baby Phat for punk style.  The mood for the day might be for the blast-to-the-past 1950's look of Fossil sunglasses.

The same clothing designer may also be the designer of the sunglasses that you choose to accessorize your brand-name clothing.   For instance, the smart Tommy dresser can add to the look of a Tommy Hilfiger clothing ensemble with Tommy Hilfiger sunglasses.  For casual wear, Kate Spade sunglasses might do nicely.   Carrera is known for a sporty look.  For a sensual mood, Valentino  frames that have smooth round edges and Swarovsky crystals might just put you (or whoever is looking at you) in the mood.

Designer sunglasses, if you can afford them, are a status symbol showing everyone that you have the cash (or credit card) to buy them.  However, in order to be fashionable in sunglasses, you do not have to give up quality.  Sunglasses, not being just fashionable accessories, are used to protect your eyes from damage caused by the sun's UV (ultra-violet) rays.  Designer prescription sunglasses can improve vision, and reduce eyestrain, just like ordinary glasses.

Name-brand and designer sunglasses can be polarized to reduce the glare of the sunlight reflecting off surfaces like the highway, cars, water or snow.  Polarized sunglasses work by blocking off the horizontal light reflections and only let in vertical light reflections.  The polarization of designer sunglasses makes them fashionable in other areas of lifestyle like golfing, boating, biking, swimming, fishing and aircraft flying.

Marketers of designer sunglasses aim toward children who enjoy the same hot styles and brand-names as their parents and their idols.  Children's designer sunglasses can also be polarized.  Sunglasses should be part of children's daily wear as they play outside and engage in outdoor sports and activities.  Sunglasses can prevent them from the long-term affects of sun damage to their eyes.

Sunglasses in any shade, shape or size, by any name may be a "hot" fashion item for trend-setting stars, men, women and children, but the importance of protecting the eyes from damage far outweighs the importance of looking cool.  
