Weird Science of Sunglasses

Everyone loves a good pair of sunglasses.  With all the benefits of sunglasses, it's hard to have an excuse not to wear them.  You may even want to tell your friends about all the great things a pair of shades can do for you.  You probably own one or two pair of standard issue Jackie-O's or Aviators, but wait until you find out about the strange oddities that are available in a pair of sunglasses.

Some people may take pet ownership to extreme levels.  For those people, sunglasses for your dogs are just a drop in the bucket.  It's difficult to picture your little ball of fur in a pair of Aviators.  However, the truth is that dogs have just as many eye problems as humans do, and their eyes should be protected.  Having said that, if you can get your canine to wear sunglasses-and keep them on-more power to you.  You're probably the same one that buys seasonal outfits for them too.

Regis and Kelly, National Geographic and Animal Planet have all taken notice of sunglasses for dogs.  They actually serve more than one purpose.  Doggie sunglasses help protect your hound's eyes from the same harmful rays our sunglasses so.  However, since we very rarely hang our heads out a car window, dog sunglasses have an added feature for even more protection.

Resembling goggles, these sunglasses will keep dirt, dust and other debris from flying into your little friend's eyes while flying down the highway.  It seems like an insane design, but when you think about it, it makes a lot of sense.  These shades for dogs help to protect your best friend the way he would protect you if he could.  

Child sized sunglasses are one thing, but baby sized are quite another.  These miniature sunglasses are sure to inspire a collective "Awwwww" from anyone passing by, but are they really necessary?  This idea seems silly at first, but is another that becomes more reasonable when you consider all of the factors.

Babies are the most sensitive creatures of all of us.  This goes double for their eyes.  A newborn's eyes are capable of seeing no more than about ten inches away from their face.  Even at this distance, most things are very blurry.  When the sun reflects into an already blurred perception of the world, the results can be very harmful.

Baby sunglasses are not just a cute idea, they are essential to protecting your child's eyesight.  Anytime you are outside with your baby, you should utilize shades on the car seat, stroller, and in the car.  A pair of tiny sunglasses adds an adorable finishing touch with extra protection.  Don't forget to take a lot of pictures; you won't want to forget this!

Flip-up sunglasses are by no means a new invention.  Still, the look of these glasses still deserves mention and a second look whenever you see them.  For this particular weird design of sunglasses, the utility makes perfect sense while the appearance is often strange.  It does make perfect sense that you would want to turn your average glasses into sunglasses, and the flip-up shades are very convenient.  But when you're in a meeting with the shades popped up and what appears to be two sets of eyes looking back at the other person, don't be surprised if they stare and giggle a little.

Sunglasses, as with any other type of popular culture are going to come in normal and strange designs.  However, before you dismiss those abnormal styles, consider its usefulness.  Even the odd in appearance can be functional, and possibly make life a little easier.
