Where to Find Good Sunglasses

Where can you find a pair of sunglasses to fit your eyewear needs?  Sunglasses are absolutely everywhere!  It is hard to walk into a retail store and not see a display of sunglasses.  In fact, listing off the places that don't sell them might be faster.  Hardware stores, emergency rooms and most car dealerships do not sell sunglasses.  Now to move on to the establishments that do.

Logically, one of the best places to buy sunglasses would be a retailer specifying in them.  Any mall or outlet strip center is bound to have at least one store targeting eyewear.  These stores will offer a wide variety of frames, lenses, sizes and styles to suit your needs.  Sunglasses at these stores can be pricey, anywhere from twenty-five to three hundred dollars.  However, you often get what you pay for.

Specialized sunglass retailers will know a lot about their product and help pick out the right ones for you.  Many of their glasses will offer higher percentage of UVA and UVB protection than less expensive brands.  If you don't mind paying the extra money, these sunglasses will be a purchase that will last.  In addition, most of these retailers include a case, cleaning cloth and other accessories along with your purchase.

Upscale designers such as Armani and Christian Dior cater to the truly fortunate crowd.  Their sunglasses can be seen in fashion magazines and on red carpets all over the globe.  If it's high fashion you seek, these designers and many others are truly the way to go.  Most of their products can be found in department stores.  However, in more upscale neighborhoods, designers may have their own storefront.

If you're not a movie star or hotel heiress, you may want to take a more low-key approach when shopping for sunglasses.  Many malls have kiosks that sell designer-looking styles at a much more realistic price.  There is really no shame in wearing knock-offs, even if your friends tease you for it.  You can casually remind them that your sunglasses look exactly like theirs.  Then let them know that, unlike them, you'll be making your car payment this month.

If you are a normal human being, you probably have a tendency to lose things.  That is where the truly inexpensive sunglasses come in handy.  These less expensive shades can be found at any retail chain superstore.  You can also find them at your local grocery store or pharmacy.  Less expensive shades may not offer the same great protection as the expensive ones, but they will usually help to filter out the UVA and UVB rays.

When shopping for sunglasses, no matter where you look, there is one important thing to remember.  Choose sunglasses that fit.  They should fit your face, your style, and your budget.  Before you spend a week's paycheck on a pair of sunglasses, you might want to consider their use.  If it is a trendy style that is bound to go out in five minutes, head to the kiosk for some knock-offs.  If you are planning to wear them somewhere they'll be easily lost, like the lake or camping, opt for the much less expensive.  The last thing you want to be doing is playing diving-for-sunglasses while everyone is having fun.

If you do drop some serious cash on a pair of sunglasses, learn to take care of them.  Carry a case for them to be in when not being worn.  Clean them only with a specialized lens cloth.  Finally, keep up with them!  Sunglasses do no good if you can't find them. 
