Business Analyst Job Description

The job description of a business analyst is rather extensive.  He or she must first determine the needs for a company by using many tools.  The business analyst may conduct interviews with management and other department leaders.  He or she must analyze documentation, facts and figures.  The analyst should incorporate a site survey to determine applications being used and what may be needed for superior quality performance.  He or she will consider business applications currently being used which may or may not be working.  The business analyst will do a business analysis and a work flow analysis to assess difficulties in reaching goals and to determine a better strategy.

A qualified business analyst will be able to ascertain the true needs to be met by the project.  He or she will be able to transfer information from management into needed data.  Statistics from other sources will be assessed and turned into usable information.  The business analyst will be able to compile a report in an easily understood projected vision to be implemented.

The job description of a business analyst does not always but should include excellent communication skills.  He or she needs to be able to address a diverse group of inside and outside personnel.  He or she should be able to motivate the departments to challenge themselves and reach their goals.  The business analyst will be required to relay information from the IT team or department to the clients in easily understood terms for both groups.

The business analyst should have past experience to draw from when processing data and information.  He or she will possess knowledge used in case studies and transfer it into usable information.  Prior situations should be able to be compared to avoid counterproductive actions.

The business analyst will be able to draw from known resources when outsourcing or external interactions are needed.  He or she will be able to incorporate joint venture relations into the project scope when it is necessary.  Determining this critical point is instrumental in the job of a business analyst.

Acting as a liaison between clients and development departments, the business analyst shall distinguish requests from needs.  He or she will assess the proposed project plan to ensure all needs are met.  The verifiable solution shall be one which guarantees success.

A statement of purpose will be proposed by the business analyst to ensure the end results are satisfactory to all involved.  There will be a project goal integrating all data collected.  Documentation will be provided by the business analyst to determine which aspects of the project will be handled by outside sources.  These sources shall be listed with critical attention being paid to the specific task of each organization.

The business analyst will have a good understanding of what is expected.  There are many aspects of the project proposal.  He or she will involve themselves with each unit to instill continence and still maintain productive action.  The professional analyst will be able to focus on each department independently and maintain a broad vision of the project scope.  These are the duties of a business analyst.
