Business Analyst in Web Design

Web design can be confusing to anyone.  The programming needed seems to be a never ending cycle of code, application, and algorithms.  Trying to determine what numbers plug into which schematic might be a bit confusing to anyone with out technical training.  The business analyst can assist with the web design of a large company right down to the mom and pop corner store.  Web design has become a need which must be addressed by almost every industry.  There are so many people today who rely on information technology to research everything from apples to zoological studies and everything in between.  The business analyst can assist with implementing the strategy necessary for a profitable web design.

Acting as the liaison between the stakeholder and the IT (Information Technology) department, the business analyst can speak to both.  He or she is knowledgeable with technology which can benefit the stakeholders.  The business analyst can also explain to the IT department what is needed for the stakeholders to be happy.  This is his or her job.

The business analyst will be able to listen to the stakeholders to determine the needs of the business.  He or she may ask pertinent questions as to the web design in question.  He or she will make suggestions to the stakeholder to explain new or existing technology that may be utilized.  The stakeholder may not be familiar with options available to the company.

Acting as the spokesman for all departments, the business analyst will be able to take ideas offered by the stakeholders and transform them into usable information for the IT department.  He or she will be able to come up with a workable solution for each key point needed by the stakeholder.  The business analyst will also be able to formulate a definitive plan of action or a project program to lay out the ground work necessary for the web design to actually perform according to plan.

There may be information the business analyst must gather from the end user to determine if the needs assessment performed by the stakeholders is viable.  In some cases it is not usable information or may be off the target scope.  The end user will know better what will make the web design complete.  The options available for the end user may be overlooked by the stakeholders.  The business analyst will be able to ascertain from surveys and site inspections what is needed to satisfy all parties involved.

Web design will be a team effort developed by many departments.  It is up to the business analyst to choose these teams so the best of the best is available.  He or she will be able to motivate the individual teams to act as a unit for the betterment of the project.  The departments will work alone and together to complete the project in a timely manner.

Using a business analyst to develop a project program for web design is a smart business decision.  He or she may have code experience which will help in analyzing the problems which may come up.  The business analyst will be able to decipher the facts and figures to better explain to the IT department what is useless code and what is viable.  The shrew business stakeholders will benefit from hiring a business analyst when the idea of web design presents it's self.
