Finding a Business Analyst

There are times when a business starts to lose money and no-one is sure where the problem is located.  Going over facts and figures only points to the bottom line.  The bottom line continues to shrink.  People start to get desperate.  Strategies are planned and implemented to no avail.  Tried and true measures are no longer working.  It is time to call on the experts.  The business analyst needs to be  brought in.  The problem is finding one who knows the company.

Finding a good business analyst is not as hard as everyone thinks.  They are not the enemy.  They are not some eerie creature sneaking around, lurking behind every corner.  A good business analyst is a creative thinker.  He or she is a motivational, aggressive team player.  The business analyst can gather data and other pertinent information from management and other sources to determine what is the key problem.

A qualified business analyst may already exist in your organization.  A member of the IT department could be the one who develops a project program designed to save the company money.  This is some one capable of setting up a development team to think outside the box.  You are looking for someone creative.  You want someone who is not afraid of a vision.  Someone with good communication skills is a must.  Most projects fall short due to the lack of communication.

It is actually a benefit to choose someone in-house.  He or she already knows the company.  The business analyst will know the strong attributes as well as weaknesses of the company.  Choosing someone from inside the organization means he or she will know the people involved.  Camaraderie may already exist.  This can make the gathering of information easier.  The more easy it is to collect needed data and information, the more quickly a project scope can be developed.

The best business analyst will be able to speak the language of which ever department he or she needs to interact with.  He or she will not get caught sidetracked with mundane tasks and mute points.  The business analyst will know what information is needed and get it.  They will keep the big picture in mind.  They will motivate others to stay on task.  A good business analyst will allow someone the freedom of creativity.  Obviously what was being done did not work.  A new approach is needed and the qualified business analyst will see this.

Someone who can develop a repoire with the departments to meet expectations is the perfect candidate for business analyst.  This person will act as a liaison between management and development teams.  He or she should be able to speak with authority while still maintaining a level of respect.  The perfect business analyst will be able to foresee problems which may arise between teams and squelch them before they start.

A liaison between involved departments, a leader during meetings, a project developer, and a numbers cruncher are all beneficial attributes of a good business analyst.  Find someone capable of doing all these things and you have found a great asset.    
