Is a Degree Necessary to be a Business Analyst

The lack of proper education can be a major drawback for someone breaking into the business world.  Many people study business management and other business related courses.  There are many diplomas issued each year to hopeful business prospects.  When it comes to being a business analyst all the rules change.  Although a degree can be helpful, it is not necessary.  Experience is the key to success when it comes to a business analyst.

Many great business analysts did not even go to college.  If they did it was not in the field of business but technology.  A business analyst can earn a degree.  There are certification classes one can take to hold the title of certified business analyst.  Most have learned from experience not from books.

A good business analyst is one who has prior experience in the business world with trouble shooting.  They will be able to assess a business proposal or project and determine needs from data gathered.  A book or white paper may not tell a business analyst what needs assessments to to prepare.  Only experience can do that in certain businesses.

To better understand what degree a business analyst must have consider it only takes 8 weeks to become a certified business analyst.  2 months of study can explain what the job description is and how to implement it.  When you put it in those terms, it may be a little unnerving to some.  Those 8 weeks are crammed with information straight from a text book.   The real world is slightly different. 

A good business analyst is going to understand the concept of code.  He or she is going to know there is something amiss when they start researching the problems reported by management.  There may be simple solutions which only require added code to justify the means.  Other projects many require extensive analysis to determine where the problem lies and how to correct it.  Someone with business savvy can figure it out.  The problem lies in implementing the plan of action.

The reputable business analyst will be able to speak with management and other stakeholders to hear what problems and solutions have been ascertained.  These issues may or may not be the root source of the conflict.  The business analyst can determine this.  He or she can weed through what management thinks is necessary information to glean the truth.  He or she will be able to drop in on IT and see what their take on the problem is.  The business analyst will also speak to other low end users who know more about the application of the program.  This is where other departments fail in providing what works and what does not compute with real life scenarios.

Does someone need a degree or license to understand the issues of business? No.  Does it help to have an understanding?  Yes.  It certainly looks good on a resume to list degrees and certifications.  Past experience and a portfolio of solved issues will go farther than any framed paper.
