The Job Market for a Business Analyst

Business analyst is not a new term in the business world.  It has become extremely popular over the past few years.  With businesses expanding world wide more emphasis has been put on the IT teams and departments to monitor and or expand with corporate peers.  This has brought about changes in how business operates.  A need for business analysis and systems analysts was born.  Stakeholders wanted to know the money being spent was worth the expenditure.  They needed someone to come in and tell them where to invest within the company to raise profits.  The business analyst job was created.

The job of the business analyst was simple at first.  He or she was nothing more than a monitor.  Observe what was going on and try to improve on it.  Look for problems and find a way to fix them.  The position became complex when stakeholders started demanding things from IT and no-one knew what to do.  The business analyst became the go between.  Acting as the liaison for stakeholders and IT, the business analyst became the one who got things done.  He or she acted as the motivator.  He or she was the mover and shaker of the company.

Today a business analyst can have several different names.  Systems analyst and project manager are just an example.  The job of business analyst can be held from inside the company or with an outside research  and consulting firm.  Certain business analysts are independent business owners choosing to offer their experience to a broad range of clientèle.  It is basically how the business analyst wishes to work which determines the job market for him or her.  

There are those people who wish to ensure job stability within a corporation.  They will feel more secure knowing they are a part of a dynamic organization they can grow with.  The skill level will grow with the demands of the job.  Emphasis will be placed on what the boss wants at any given time.

Other people breaking into the job market may wish to join with a group of individuals already working with several clients to fulfill the needs of stakeholders.  A research and development firm may be just what is needed for this individual.  He or she will want to learn with their peers, work with a  trained team, and accomplish things as a team player.  They will be able to grow and expand by learning from the years of experience the firm has to offer.

The business analyst who thinks outside the box may be truly happy on his or her own.  He or she may want to develop their own kind of strategy for the job market.  This kind of person may choose to open his or her own consulting firm.  He or she may be very good at working alone while still motivating the teams and departments to get the job done.  His or her success depends on the negotiating skills and other people skills one is born with.  Some independent business analysts are very successful.

The job market is open to many who seek this type of position  research should be done prior to just accepting any offer that comes.  Questions should be asked.  Is this the type of company I will be happy with?  Is there room for advancement?  Will I gain experience while working here?  Will I be able to express myself freely when I foresee a problem with a project?  What are they looking for in a business analyst?  Do I truly fit the description?

Determining what the business analyst is looking for before he or she even starts career chasing will save quite a few headaches down the road.
