Techniques Available to the Business Analyst

The business analyst will utilize many tools when scoping out a project proposal.  He or she may use basic, intermediate, or advanced techniques.  Each company project proposal will be different.  Similarities may occur allowing the business analyst to use past experience to implement a business plan.

Different businesses will demand varied techniques to implement a project proposal.  If there is a company newsletter detailing IT production, this will help a business analyst with his or her research.  Data collection can come from many sources.  The news letter may give an insight into what the company is struggling with or trying to accomplish.  A blog or website can also provide this information.

Financial statements will allow the business analyst to examine past successes and failures of the company.  Statistics can be gathered which will inform the analyst of strategies used in the past.  This will help in calculating risk assessment.  The financial software available on today's market will allow the business analyst to establish where financial results can be improved.

The business analyst has the ability to utilize a feedback survey to determine specific needs of the company.  Simple questionnaires can pinpoint management strategies and performance as well as give an employee and outside sourcing analysis.  Added to information already gathered, the business analyst can compile a project program for acquiring higher profit margins and reaching set goals.

The certified analyst will take into consideration the cost of a project.  At times the company can be spending money where it is not necessary.  This is also true with project programs.  A good business analyst will determine necessary needs and strive to keep project program costs within a set guideline.

The best technique a business analyst can use is creativity.  Let them think outside the box.  Allow the freedom of expression to flow freely.  The business analyst is a creative do-er.  Let them do what comes naturally.  A true business analyst will create a project program as though it were a work of art.  This is the parental instinct coming out.  The technique is to develop the "baby" and nurture it into something workable.  As with any great thing, an artist will look at all aspects to determine what will make a good model and a good subject.

Using both as a focal point, a masterpiece is created.  Success will usually follow.  There will be nay sayers.  These are the ones who need to see the big picture and not each individual step.  There will inevitably be fault with one or two points.  The savvy business analyst will see the faults do not become cliff hangers.  The issues will be dealt with in a timely manner.

Only good things can happen from that point.  Allowing the creative techniques to be used has put many a business at the forefront of their industry.  A good business analyst is always looking for something which will work to make a difference.  When he or she recognizes a problem, the creative side sees what has or has not worked in the past and figures out a way to overcome the issue.  As a motivational person, the business analyst will encourage creative thinking in the departments.  Embracing new ideas and trends have produced record setting years for companies which use to struggle.  The intelligent business analyst will know different can be dynamic.
