The Role of a Business Analyst

The role of a business analyst can be very difficult.  He or she must wade through the mass of information presented to determine the underlying problems.  This information may or may not be correct.  The business analyst much research to comprehend the true situation of the business.  The information supplied to the business analyst is given from many perspectives.  Opinions can influence how one perceives the related issues.  At times, the opinions can add unrelated information which only complicates the role of a business analyst.

Problems can occur for the analyst when persons with the business know how try to explain what must be done.  The role of the business analyst is to understand what is the desired outcome.  He or she will listen and put into perspective what is being relayed.  The business analyst will be able to determine what is feasible and what just can not be done.  The role of a business analyst is that of a problem solver.  Understanding both aspects as a user and as one affected by the application will allow the business analyst to perform his or her role.

The role of a business analyst is to merge the Information Technology (IT) department with the business departments.  He or she will be able to separate the separate the individual teams while still maintaining a uniform team management system.  Teaching these two teams how to work to overcome obstacles and strive for completion of a goal is a main directive for the business analyst.  He or she will act as a liaison between the two.  Performed correctly will result in project completion.  Success will be achieved.

Management may be impatient when the business analyst begins resolving the project program issues.  The role of the business analyst will allow him or her to understand the project scope.  He or she will determine what the project objectives are and who is trying to implement them.  The business analyst will assess the needs and determine the project goals.  He or she will not jump ahead to the solution without utilizing the proper steps.  A good business analyst will be skilled in explaining the structure of each step and co-ordinate them with each department.  This will reassure management the job is being done in a timely manner.

The perfect business analyst is one who was a user.  In other words, he or she understands the complications of being with the IT team.  The business analyst will be able to explain the project scope from the lay person's perspective.  He or she will not get lost or caught up in trying to explain technicalities or formulas.  Rather the business analyst will explain each process as a stepping stone to reach the ultimate goal.  The lack of communication has resulted in almost 50% of project failures.  Informing each department involved, in a way they will understand, can mean greater success.

The role of the business analyst is not to jump to the end and start with the solution.  This will only result in failure.  Assessing the needs to determine what is actually required will allow the business analyst to implement the steps to success.  There are times when management will think otherwise.  The business analyst should try to make all parties understand what is important and what is not relevant.  This ensures all information needed to identify the solution has been presented.  In the end, the business analyst will be able to determine if the solution will meet the requirements designed in the project proposal.  This will ensure success for the business analyst and the company.
