What is a business analyst?

A business analyst is a person whose job is to analyze business needs and critical problems for the stakeholders and propose practical solutions.  Many times this is done with a project proposal.  The business analyst is to study the proposal, determining which would be the best course of action to reach  the proposed solution.  At times this can not be done.

The plan and solution may look good on paper.  When it comes time to implement the program, people and teams can be divided.  50% of all project proposals fail due to a lack of communication.  The business analyst must also be a good people person to make the teams work together for the betterment of the business.

The entire project is based on saving money.  When a qualified business analyst can not perform his or her duties because of the lack of co-operation, the result is a waste of time and money.  The project is doomed for failure.  A business analyst must be able to use negotiation skills and motivational techniques for the entire project to succeed short term and long term.

A business analyst will listen.  Instead of jumping ahead and looking at the goal, he or she will take the time to understand the needs of the company.  Asking questions is a key element to success in the world of business analysis.  If the business analyst fails to comprehend the true needs of a company, the project can be sidetracked with issues unrelated.  Again, the result would be failure.

A certified business analyst has been trained to read and recognize omissions in the project proposal.  He or she will understand the need for outsourcing certain tasks.  Choosing to use in-house personnel or outside resources will be something the professional business analyst can determine by assessing the needs of the company.  This may be where a lack of communication or even team failure comes into the equation.  A good analyst will explain as the project progresses so each team knows what is happening.

The business analyst may be hired to complete a proposed project but he or she must pull the company together as a whole.  A good analyst knows company failure can result because of division in the offices or departments.  He or she will see to it the company as a whole can see the vision of the business.  He or she will explain how each department is integrated with the other.  The project proposal may include more than is listed.  The proposal may take another route to get the job done.  A business analyst familiar with the industry involved will be able to recognize the overlooked or not so obvious issues involved.

There are times when services from outside sources may be utilized by the business.  The business analyst is trained to understand the importance or lack of need for these sources.  He or she can determine the most cost effective way to use the sources.  The business analyst may find directing the designated tasks to in-house departments more beneficial to the company.  This is part of researching the project proposal.  The business analyst is to determine the most cost effective way to reach the goal and still succeed with a bottom line net profit.
