What does a business analyst do

The qualified business analyst wears many hats.  He or she is a negotiator, a skilled listener, a motivational speaker, and a team leader.  His or her title may include that of systems analyst, requirements analyst, or project manager.  The business analyst may or may not have a degree in business analysis.  He or she may not be able to write code.  However, the business analyst is educated in the process necessary to produce the code.  He or she may even come from an IT department.  But what is it they do?

The business analyst is someone capable of troubleshooting.. He or she will be able examine data and other information gathered to determine losses experienced by the company.  The business analyst will be able to compare previous facts and figures to current numbers to deduce or predict where failure may occur.  He or she will be able to examine information gathered by stakeholders to assess risks of certain project programs.  

The business analyst is an objective listener.  He or she will be able to speak to stakeholders and hear the needs determined by the management.  The business analyst will be able to ask questions which could lead to certain discoveries once overlooked.  The qualified business analyst gain knowledge of a situation by listening to team leaders and end users.  He or she will hear the underlying message of what is being developed versus what is needed.

The business analyst is a negotiator.  He or she will be able to involve themselves with departments and teams to allow the teams to work together.  The business analyst will realize conflicts among departments.  He or she will work side by side with each team to negotiate a compromise so the project is not jeopardized.  The business analyst will motivate the teams to recognize their strength and weakness and allow them to excel and overcome.  He or she will develop a rapport with department heads and stakeholders to rally the teams into completing the tasks at hand.

The business analyst may be asked to centralize services for more efficient work environments.  He or she may be asked to reduce duplication processes occurring between departments.  The qualified business analyst may be asked to develop relations with external sources when necessary to deliver services needed for project completion.  The duties of the business analyst are never ending.  He or she is a useful asset to the company.

The business analyst is a visionary.  He or she usually thinks outside the box.  Always in the know about latest technological advances, the business analyst will know when a program is capable of being utilized by the company.  He or she will know how to determine a need when the situation arises. This way the business is not left behind and can keep up with corporate peers.

Sometimes the business analyst is forgotten amongst the bustle of corporate strategy.  However the business analyst will be the always be the innovative link between each and every department and stage of development in the project program.
