Why use a business analyst

There are some business people who are not sure why they would need a business analyst.  This can be a hard decision to make.  The easiest way to determine whether or not  a business could benefit from a business analyst is to decide what the business wants to accomplish.  If there is a problem that can not be pinpointed the use of a business analyst could be beneficial.

Not all business analysts have to be called in from the outside.  There may be a qualified individual in the organization which can meet the qualifications of a business analyst.  It may be someone in the IT department.  It may be someone who is familiar with the workings of all the departments.  A quick search of qualified applicants can determine this issue.

The business analyst can help with formulating a plan of action which allows the stakeholders to pinpoint where a problem exists.  Narrowing down the problem can be handled by the business analyst through research and data.  Once the problem has been uncovered, the business analyst will be able to determine which is the best course of action.  A project report can be written outlining the steps needed to reach a pre-determined solution.

The good business analyst will be able to act as a liaison between departments.  He or she will be able to speak with each department.  At times the department teams may falter or second guess themselves.  The business analyst will be able to motivate the teams.  He or she will be able to point out the strengths each individual has.  This will allow the teams to aggressively approach each task at hand.  The qualified business analyst will be able to express the needs of the stakeholder and the end user in such a way for the IT department and others involved can understand.

There are times when stakeholders and the development team are on the same page but each is interpreting something different.  The qualified business analyst will be able to set the wheels in motions which allow both stakeholders and development teams to understand what is needed. 

Unless the business analyst asks questions and listens carefully, the entire scope of the project can be placed in jeopardy.  It is up to the business analyst to weigh all the facts and do the research necessary for everyone to understand what is being requested.  Once the teams know what is required of them the business analyst can keep each team informed of the others performance and completion of set tasks.

In the long run the business analyst can be an asset to the company for many years.  He or she can build a rapport with each team and department within the company for future project programs being developed.  As new technology becomes available the business analyst will be able to inform stakeholders what may need to be done to implement it into the workings of the company.  Outside sources will be more easily obtained with someone familiar with the project programs and what is necessary to accomplish the task.  The experience of a business analyst will show when it comes time to lead a meeting to explain what is happening.  The vision of a company can be designed by the qualified business analyst.
