Writing a Vision Statement

Writing the vision statement for a project can be the most enjoyable aspect of being a business analyst.  He or she may have to curb their enthusiasm during the writing process.  The business analyst can become lost in great expectations when writing the vision statement.

Writing the vision statement will answer the everyday questions of who, what , when, why, and where.  The who is easily defined as the stakeholders and the end user.  The stakeholder as the who will be listed as the person or company enabling the project to be completed.  It will include pertinent information about the company stand on the technology being developed.

In writing a vision statement the "what" is the project program.  The vision statement will deliver reasoning behind why the program is being developed.  It will include what the program will be able to accomplish, what uses the program will have and who the program will impact.  The vision statement may include statements of interest including updates available.  The key is to keep the vision statement truthful.

Vision statements include when the project or program will be completed or available for use.  It will set a goal for release or implementation.  The when is the time frame set by the stakeholders and development teams needs assessment.  Determining the when of a vision statement can be an overwhelming task.  There are always reasons why something can not be done on time.  The infamous phrase is "There is never enough time to do it right, but always enough time to do it again."  To set a definitive date in a vision statement is to take a risk.  This is something which should also be included.  Stakeholders and end users will know the date is tentative.

The vision statement will deliver the reason why the program or project is being developed.  It will list needs by the stakeholders and the end user.  It will answer how the procedure or program will benefit the stakeholders.  The vision statement will allow for projected returns on the investment.  It will list why the program has to be developed for the betterment of the organization.  The vision statement will answer why the project steps are being taken.  This is probably one of the key elements in a vision statement.

Where the program will be used is another key factor listed in the vision statement.  The business analyst will determine where the program will best be utilized.  In writing the vision statement the business analyst will reveal where project development will take place.  It will also list where any outside resources will be used.  Where the end user applies the program is instrumental in how the program is developed.

The vision statement is not to be confused with the mission statement of a company.  The vision statement is concerning the program project and only the program project.  There may be great ideas expressed in the vision statement.  The good business analyst will be able to keep the vision statement focused on the needs of the stakeholders.  It is up to the business analyst and developers to keep the vision statement real and do-able.  This is a mission with a targeted success date.  The vision statement will deliver this information so the stakeholders know the scope of the project.  The vision statement is the concept behind the mission.
