Domke Camera Bag: The Quality behind Its Making


The man behind the creations of Domke bags is Jim Domke. It all began when he thought of designing a shooter's bag that will provide him easy access while on the run being a Philadelphia Inquirer staffer. He observed that most designs of bags are more like storage devices or carrying cases having much padding and bulk. For him, it is unnecessary and uncomfortable because it can take away speed, capacity, and utility. Thus he created a bag with necessary cushioning and has plenty of room. The design will enable him to get his equipments right away without taking off the bag from his shoulder. Jim Domke's ideas were highly appreciated by his colleagues and other photographers. From then on, his genius experiment became a product line of intelligent bag designs and accessories being recognized by photojournalists around the world. 

Domke bags use exceptional materials and innovative features. It provides good options for people to own one which suits their preference and style. 

If you lean more on understated and traditional design then the canvass is perfect for you. The heavy weight canvass of cotton is all-natural, supple, soft, and smooth textured that will ideally suit your body. These materials are friendly on both clothing and equipment. The fabric is naturally resistant to water, however additional repellent treatment is incorporated on the dying process to give extra protection. You don't have to worry because the fabric can still breathe staying dry even in the most humid surroundings. The models include F-1X Little Bit Bigger, F-2 Original, F-3X Super Compact, F-4AF Pro System, F-5XB Shoulder/Belt, F-6 Little Bit Smaller, and F-7 Double AF. 

If you prefer a more high approach on technology, then the Ballistic Nylon is a sure bet. Its designs are super-tough and the fabrics are water-resistant. The texture is more pronounced compared to canvass featuring a beefy and weatherproof coating of urethane. It keeps its sheen and shape even after hard use because of its flexibility. The models include F-1XB Ballistic, F-2B Ballistic, F-3XB Ballistic, and F-6B Ballistic. These are made of 1050 Denier Ballistic Nylon and 200 Denier interiors of pack cloth.

The hardware found in Domke bags are tough and street tested. They use the strongest adjusters, buckles, clips, and rings. You can observe that most of their bags feature steel snaphooks that are bomb-proof. The steel rings are welded providing a closure that is pilfer-proof resembling a padlock. Another hardware composite element that they provide is the DuPont Delrin. 

The Gripper Strap is non-slip keeping it steadily on your shoulder. High-friction rubbers are custom-weaved into the toughest and thickest webbing which also surrounds even the bottoms of the bag to provide maximum security and support. 

Another exclusive creation of Domke is the Padded Insert System which protects and organizes your gears with less bulk and fuss. These are compartmentalized, interchangeable inserts that can enable you to custom-tailor Domke bags to fit any equipment combination or application. These are also complete inserts with self-contained component storage system which cannot be found on flat walls, floors, bridges, and hatches of other bags. 

Topmost professional photographers rely on Domke when it comes to reliability and high quality camera bags. The "brand name" has already gained a reputation for being in the bag manufacturing business for more than thirty years now.  Domke bags as well its accessories have become the constant companions of photo enthusiasts whether they are trekking on city streets or tropical heats. 

