Adult Dyslexia: Lindamood Phoneme Sequencing Program

Another program to treat adult dyslexia is the Lindamood Phoneme Sequencing Program (LIPS). This program generally uses phoneme awareness as its method to learn how to read efficiently.

The Program’s Premise

This method believes in the premise that the primary cause of problems related to decoding and spelling is the individual’s complexity in judging the identity, sound sequence and number that is found within words. This inability is then termed to be “weak phoneme awareness”. 

A dyslexic person is basically thought of to have a weakness in his or her phonological processing. This weakness is the said cause on why both children and adults tend to add, substitute, omit, and reverse the sounds and the letters within the words that they read. 

People with dyslexia cannot precisely get the words they are reading off the page, simply because even though they can correctly see the letters, they are unable to judge whether what they see would match what they are about to say. Because of this poor judgment, they are prevented from correcting and detecting their errors in spelling, reading and speech. Additionally, this can be the cause of difficulty when a person tries to learn a second language.

What It Does

The program aims to successfully develop a person with dyslexia’s phoneme awareness. Here you are able to apply the so-called awareness to your reading, spelling, writing, and speech both remedially and preventively. 

If you train in this kind of program, you are aided to find out the different mouth actions that can produce real speech sounds. By the use of this kind of sensory information, you can verify sounds and know their order within words. Once you know this kind of skill, you are then enabled to correct yourself when reading, writing, spelling, and speaking.  

Program Intensity

Generally, people under this program tend to gain several grade levels on their decoding ability within four to six weeks of having intensive training and treatment. If you are to undergo an intensive program, then you are required to undergo therapy for four hours in a day. 

However, if you still have the choice on how intense you want your program to be. If you want it light, then they can adjust it so.

Findings have also shown that additional gains in speech and language skills have also occurred by the means of this sensory-cognitive method. This was observed even after the individuals have already reached a plateau through the traditional approach of speech therapy.

Where You Can Find It

You can undergo this kind of program by going to a Lindamood-Bell Learning Processes Center. You can find one in over fifteen states in the United States and United Kingdom. The public can have access to materials that are included in the program such as a manual with a detailed presentation of the steps that you have to take in the program. Some outlines and sample dialogues are also included.

You would also need some of their support products. Some of these are their classroom kit, program clinical kit, training videos, a practice CD, and a testing kit. These products are included already when you apply for their program.

Other Conditions For The Program

The program also caters to other conditions related to dyslexia, such as hyperlexia. This is a condition where you may have specific problems in comprehending the data that you just read, even though you can read it accurately.
