Assessment And Support For Adult Dyslexia

A lot of adults who are potential dyslexics have second thoughts on getting a formal assessment for dyslexia. If you are one of them, then it’s about time that you stop thinking this way. Getting an assessment is actually not so hard at all. In fact, it is very easy as long as you know where and how to get one.

How To Get A Formal Dyslexia Assessment

One institute that can help you with getting a formal dyslexia assessment is The Dyslexia Institute. They can help arrange an assessment session for you with a certified professionally qualified independent psychologist who has proficient knowledge on dyslexia. 

It can be helpful for the psychologist to have additional background information about you from your tutors or employers; however, sometimes you may want to get advice first before involving other people. 

Confidentiality Issues

If you are worried of your condition’s negative effect on your identity, then fear no more. You can be assured that the institute’s Consulting Psychologists and Institute staff would definitely treat all information that you give them confidentially. They would not release any kind of information without your permission.

What Happens During An Assessment

The assessment session would usually last for about two hours only. In this time span, discussion about the findings is already included. Additionally, you get to talk with a psychologist about different ways of dealing with any difficulties that may arise in the future regarding the information that were revealed during the session. 

During an assessment, you will undergo a somewhat “investigation” about your learning, thinking, and problem-solving skills. This is done to get indications where are your areas of strength and difficulty. Additionally, it can examine your achievements on basic writing, reading, mathematics and spelling skills.

Relevance Of The Results

The details that are gathered during your assessment are used by the psychologist to ensure whether you have areas of performance that do not meet up to the expected level for your age. If the results are like that, then it is usually a sign that you have a specific learning difficulty, which is responsible for your complexity on developing certain abilities. 

If your results yield complex data, then sometimes, further elaboration may be needed. In able to do this, more test are usually done. After the extra tests are done, you will have another talk with your psychologist to discuss about the new data gathered on your condition.
 
Need Help?
 
After getting an assessment, the first question that would probably pop into your mind is whether someone out there is capable of helping you. That question is immediately answered since after your assessment session, your psychologist would give you practical instructions depending on the severity of your case and difficulties that you are experiencing.

The instructions can also highly depend on your career and educational goals, which you sought out for. 

Typically, these instructions would include making other people aware of dyslexia’s presence in your life. This is important so that they would not relentlessly pass judgment on your poor handwriting or spelling skills. There are a lot more other instructions that your psychologist can give you after the assessment; however, they greatly vary on a case to case basis.

So, now that you know how a typical dyslexia assessment for adults carries through, you can see that there is really no reason why you should be afraid of getting one and knowing if you have the condition or not.
