Dyslexia: Symptoms To Watch Out For

Sometimes, a person with dyslexia can reach adulthood without even knowing he or she has the condition. To avoid this from happening, there are some symptoms of the condition that you can watch out for to know whether or not that you should seek the help and opinion of a professional to know whether you have the condition or not. 

Dyslexia can manifest itself in a lot of different ways. Some of the symptoms are common while some can be very rare. All the presented symptoms of the condition, however, are most likely not present all at the same time for one person.
 
Difference In Achievements

A person with this condition can have an obvious discrepancy between his or her academic skills or achievement, and his or her real-life performance in verbal and practical problem-solving skills. This means, a dyslexic person can sometimes be very bad when it comes to academic concerns, while he or she can perform well when you are simply dealing with normal daily problem-solving.

One example would be a person who has a failing grade with basic math, but can do well when asked to get a number of objects. Another would be someone who has difficulty in reading class but seems normal when you talk with them.

Comprehension Problems

Another symptom would be comprehension problems. If it is taking you ages just to read a short book and has severe difficulty in understanding it then most probably, dyslexia is the culprit. For a example, a simple children’s fairytale book with illustrations like The Ugly Duckling, which has only about ten pages, already takes you 45 minutes to read and seems that you can’t understand what you are reading while doing so. 

Reading And Spelling Problems

Comprehending what you are reading may not be the only problem that you have. You may also have a problem with reading itself. You can miss off the endings of some words while reading it or when you are spelling it. This is another one of the most common symptoms that dyslexia can present.

For example, you are reading and spelling the word “baby”. When reading, what may register to your mind is only “bab”, thus when you spell it, “bab” is the come out.

Poor Writing Skills

With dyslexia, your writing skills can be very poor too. You tend to have very bad hand writing and the overall presentation of your written work can be very bad. Not only will you have poor spelling, but you can also have some misusage of punctuation marks or even no use at all. 

Writing Blocks

Writing blocks happen when most writers suddenly have a loss of ideas of what to write. However, in dyslexic people writing blocks can occur every time he or she attempts to write something, even if what he or she is about to write is only something as simple as his or her name. Not being able to concentrate and think of what you are about to write, is yet another general symptom of this condition.

These are just some of the general symptoms of dyslexia that you should watch out for. So, if you think that you have a manifestation of these symptoms in a very extreme level, then it is advised that you consult a professional now.
