Helping Adults With Dyslexia In The Workplace

Even though adult dyslexics are tremendously talented, they still have some problems that may need special attention, especially coming from their employers and colleagues. 

Most likely, adults with this condition are defensive and secretive. They also write down inverted financial figures and phone numbers. A simple memo can take an hour of their time just to decipher. 

Masquerade

However, even with the acceptance of the condition, most would still likely try to hide their illiteracy from their colleagues. They have their own subtle ways on manipulating other people to write and read for them, which is a skill that most dyslexics have developed during their school years. 

In most cases, severe headaches are the result of putting much effort into trying to read with accuracy. There is a loss of productivity that is obvious to anyone, although it can be hard to estimate up to what extent.

Playing such kind of masquerade won’t do any good in the part of both employee and employer. That is why openness about the condition is needed so that the employer and employee with the condition can help out each other in able to achieve productivity and success.

Compromise

A little give and take between the employer and employee is important. Both sides should cooperate with each other on how they can improve the working experience and product of the employee. 

One example would be devising a way to make it easier for the dyslexic adult to read while in the workplace. Employers should take charge and initiate that they’d be giving support to their employee to make reading easier. Adapting the workplace is easy, as long as there is cooperation between the workers and employers. 

Some Reading Techniques In The Workplace

One way to help out reading disabled people so that they can efficiently work is to give them instructions orally.  Dictating through an audio recorder or voice mail would also be helpful. Doing this can help save time and increase productivity since there is no more need for an hour long memo deciphering sessions.

Assigning someone to read things to them is okay. However, this can sometimes make the employee with the condition feel somewhat awkward. It would be better to provide a computer that has a voice synthesizer. The computer can easily be the one to read the memos for you employee. 

Computers are of great help, since most dyslexics are good in using one. In fact, some people with this condition sometimes find it easier to read from screens than reading from paper. Additionally, they are able to compose presentable reports and letters by using the spell-checker feature of the computer. 
On Writing

With regards to writing, avoid giving written tests that are similar to those given in school. Another is that if possible; avoid asking your dyslexic employee to fill in very complicated forms. 

If your employee haven't had remedial training, then he or she has a somewhat disadvantage. But there’s no need to be discouraged, since they have accurate and detailed memories. 

What you can do is to question them orally. You can also assign someone to write down their answers while they dictate it. If you really have to give a written test, then you are obliged to give extra time for your employee to answer it.

Additionally, the test should be conducted in an environment that is distraction free.
