Programs For Adult Dyslexia: Audioblox 2000
 
The Audioblox 2000 is a program that is based on the premise that the main problem is not the physical disability of the learner. The main problem is said to be the method on how the message is delivered and the learner’s preparation for it. This is just another one of the many methods how you can cope with your dyslexia.

How It Works

This method concentrates by working on the learning process’ basic tasks. It is believed that in able for a person to learn effectively, the educator should observe a sequence in teaching. 

Similar to scaffolding, one simple skill should be taught first, before teaching a more complicated one. Certain things should be known by the learner first, before he or she can learn other information. This “prerequisite” kind of system makes learning an organized system. 

The main objective of this program is to put into practice and automate your needed skills that lie beneath reading, writing, spelling, math and the whole process of acquiring more knowledge on different subject matters.  

Basically, Audiblox is comprised of a system of different cognitive exercises. These exercises are generally aimed for the development of your foundational learning skills. When you are trained in this kind of program, your foundational skills are developed. Additionally, they are automated. 

Concentration

One fundamental skill that you need in able to learn is the ability to concentrate. Concentration is one important key in learning, because without it, you can not really achieve anything. You cannot grasp ideas or concepts if you are easily distracted. Optimal learning requires full concentration, or else, nothing is learned.  

Perception

Another needed skill is perception. This may be auditory, visual, and haptic. The way you perceive things would highly affect how you understand them and how you can use them appropriately with your everyday life.

Proprioception

Proprioception is yet another skill that you need. Discriminating, synthesizing, and analyzing by the use of foreground, background, size, form, color and position in space or time, is a skill that can be useful with your everyday life.
  
Memory

Memory should also be developed. Just think how can you remember what you are learning if you do not have any kind of memory. That is why all kinds of memory such as short term, long term, auditory and visual are considered to be invaluable. Most dyslexics have problems with short term memory. However, when they associate some words with other things such as colors, remembering becomes easier for them.

Decoding And Integration

Next is your ability to decode information. Additionally, you should be able to integrate this decoded information, so that you can synthesize your learning process. If you cannot decode information that is given to you, then acquisition of new information is hampered. 

The ability to understand the concept of numbers is also important. Today’s world revolves around math. Understanding simple number concepts is your first stepping stone in using numbers for daily application such as the use of money.
  
Motor Skills

Lastly, you also need your fine and gross motor skills. Body coordination is needed to perform simple tasks such as walking and difficult tasks such as writing. Flipping a page of a book already requires you good fine motor skills. Just think how you can learn without being able to simply turn a book’s page! 
