Techniques On Managing Dyslexia In The Work Place

Dyslexia can have some effects on you while being in the workplace. Here are some techniques that people with this condition usually do to deal with problems that their condition may bring upon while working.

Write It Down

When organization becomes a problem, writing things down can be beneficial. If you have to manage some work related or personal tasks, you try putting them into writing. By placing them in a sheet of paper, you can be sure that you don’t forget them. 

Starting there, you can go get a notebook and designate your tasks to specific days of the week. Make use one page for one whole day. Also, try to allocate your tasks a specific time, in which you have to complete it. 

When you are finished with that, place the other remaining tasks in another page. These would be your long-term tasks. Once you complete a task within the day, cross them off the page or try to reorganize what you have written. 

If you have some tasks that you do not get to do or finish, then roll them off to the next day. You can also put in reminders and birthdays on the pages. Basically it’s like making a throw away organizer. 

If you are a highly visual person that can learn best if you writing things down, then this method can work wonders with you. Additionally, it can give you the feeling of confidence since you have managed your tasks and have written it on paper so you would not forget. 

Silence Please

Some dyslexic people only need a quiet environment in order to function and work properly. Finding a quiet place at home or at your workplace may just be the thing you need so that you can gain control and concentration on your work.

Some simply go to their ‘quiet spot’, close their eyes, and starts typing freely ong their computer. This is one way of letting your creative side gush out and take control. If you think of it that way, you wouldn’t have to bear with the endeavors of trying to think about the correct spelling of words.

Directions

If directions are your problem, then you can make use of the landmark method. Here, you notice and observe landmarks to find your way around, instead of using street names. For example, you can find your favorite restaurant by simply remembering that it is beside KFC and McDonalds. 

Highlighters

The use of highlighters can prove to be very beneficial, whether you are working or studying. When you are reading books, try to highlight them to mark where you have left off. You can also highlight memos or written instructions that are given to you at work. In this way you can read them without the white glare, which highly disturbs a lot of dyslexics when reading.

Key Point Marking 

Whenever you are reading a written document or memo, try to mark the key points so that when you reread them, it can be easier for you. However, be sure that you only write on documents that you are allowed to write on, or else this can be a cause of a big problem for you. 

These are just some of the ways on how you can lessen the effect of dyslexia when you are working. A specific technique can be effective to one person, but not to another. Thus, doing some experiment and testing on which techniques are effective for you are needed.
