The Breakthrough Of Childhood To Adult Dyslexia

Dyslexia is a learning disability that can affect children greatly during their school years. However, this condition doesn’t only have its effects on childhood but on adulthood too, especially in the workplace. The thing is, unlike in childhood where dyslexia has a great negative effect; in adulthood, the effect can vary from positive to negative.

A Look Back At Childhood Education
 
The educational methods used today are somewhat limited in regards to teaching students with reading, math and writing problems, the basic literacy skills that a child needs to know. Although most wouldn’t observe this problem, a lot of people with dyslexia are greatly affected by this limitation.
 
From the very start, the school system is observed to be stacked against dyslexics. This is because a person with dyslexia is "real world" thinker, which means the use of concepts and pictures is the main method to learn, instead of using mental sentences. 

Thus, special training is required for them in able to master written language’s basics easily.

A Disability With A Twist

Even though dyslexics have lots of problems with learning, this is not an indicator that they are stupid, unlike what most people think. Einstein, Leonardo da Vinci, Churchill, Edison, Whoopi Goldberg, Greg Louganis and Walt Disney, were well thought-out to be "dummies" by their classmates, teachers, family and friends, during their first few years of school. 

However, one way to look at the situation they were in is that they weren’t really suffering from a learning disability, but instead a teaching disability.

A lot of teachers just do not know the correct and appropriate methods for teaching and presenting information in the way that a dyslexic child can understand. As a consequence, these children are sometimes warehoused into "special ed" classes.

But sometimes, getting into a special ed class can cause the loss of self-esteem. This then becomes the trigger to the syndrome, which makes dyslexia even worse. 
Sadly, this kind of attitude is sometimes carried over into adulthood. 

Additional confusion, stress, coupled with heavy concentration, can only increase the attention and perceptual problems that the child is already having. The more struggle a dyslexic has, the more hard reading becomes.

Out Of The Cage: Welcome To Adulthood

As a dyslexic, once you get to finish school and start adulthood, life may seem easier for you. In fact, a lot of "learning disabled" people turn out to be highly successful once they are free from the boundaries of school. 

With this condition, you may think that you simply have a knack for an activity. What you don’t realize is that this knack actually stems out from the same root as dyslexia -- your ability to mentally combine real world and imaginary images in an intuitive or creative way. 

This talent can cause tremendous turmoil with your reading and writing. But when it is used for fields like the arts, sports, engineering, invention, salesmanship, and strategy, it can actually produce wonders!

This breakthrough from childhood to adulthood is really a notable event in the life of a person with dyslexia. More often, they can get their lost self-esteem back since they have found something where they are successful in. 

Sadly, not all cases of dyslexia have this kind of pattern. There are times when adulthood comes, the worse the condition gets. However, this mainly depends on the personal outlook of the person. That is why a positive outlook should be promoted.
