Title: 
10 Must-dos When In Dublin

Word Count:
372

Summary:
Few places around the world lend a friendlier hand than Dublin. The Emerald Isle offers wonderful hospitality, complemented by its warm and friendly hosts. A cosmopolitan city, Dublin is rightly proud of its rich heritage, but also presents a modern face in keeping with contemporary culture.

1. Trinity College

Housing the Book of Kells, a near two century old manuscript written by monks, Trinity College is Dublin’s oldest university, built in 1592.

2. Christ Church C...


Keywords:
aer, aerlingus, aib, dublin, eircom, eire, gaa, galway, grafton, hibernian, holyhead, ryannair


Article Body:
Few places around the world lend a friendlier hand than Dublin. The Emerald Isle offers wonderful hospitality, complemented by its warm and friendly hosts. A cosmopolitan city, Dublin is rightly proud of its rich heritage, but also presents a modern face in keeping with contemporary culture.

1. Trinity College

Housing the Book of Kells, a near two century old manuscript written by monks, Trinity College is Dublin’s oldest university, built in 1592.

2. Christ Church Cathedral

Dublin’s oldest building dates back nearly one thousand years to 1038. It was built courtesy of the invading Vikings, a monument to serve a powerful army.

3. Dublin Castle

Dating back to the Norman invasion, this wonderful example of medieval architecture captures the artistic influence of the time. Magnificent painted ceilings and crystal chandeliers portray the Ireland of one thousand years ago.

4. National Gallery of Ireland

Monet and Picasso are just two of the influential artists on display in the city’s largest gallery. Some 2,500 paintings give a flavour of a historic past and present.

5. Guinness Storehouse

Ireland’s most famous export was once brewed in this famous old building. Since relocated, the Guinness Storehouse now delights in telling its visitors how one of the world’s favourite beverages came to be.

6. Temple Bar

Contrasting Dublin’s historic ancestry, Temple Bar brings the city right up to modern day with its cosmopolitan mix of bars, restaurants, shops and art galleries.

7. Smithfield Village

More eating, drinking and shopping can be found at Smithfield Village, a newly renovated development. A walk to the top of the Chimney presents magnificent, panoramic views of Dublin.

8. Grafton Street

Big name department stores trade alongside local craft shops in the busiest shopping area of Dublin. Traditional Irish gifts and souvenirs can be found more easily in the adjacent Nassau Street.

9. Pint of Guinness

No visit to Ireland would be complete without a tipple of the world famous Irish Guinness. Locals say it tastes better in its home city. Well, there’s only one way to find out!

10. Irish Grand National

You can smell the money amongst the punters present at one of the great sporting events of the calendar. Join the runners and riders during the month of April to witness the Irish Grand National.


