Title: 
10 Places To Get That Holiday Trip Tan

Word Count:
874

Summary:
Are you tired of watching your friends, family members and coworkers go on vacation and return a week later with a beautiful tan? Well it could be you with that stunning tan if you plan your next vacation in the right place. By selecting one of our top ten places to get a tan as your next travel destination, you will be sure to come back with an eye-catching tan.

1. Located in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Copacabana Beach is one of the most beautiful beaches in the world. With ...


Keywords:
travel, travel packing tips, holiday travel


Article Body:
Are you tired of watching your friends, family members and coworkers go on vacation and return a week later with a beautiful tan? Well it could be you with that stunning tan if you plan your next vacation in the right place. By selecting one of our top ten places to get a tan as your next travel destination, you will be sure to come back with an eye-catching tan.

1. Located in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Copacabana Beach is one of the most beautiful beaches in the world. With a backdrop of the rolling hills of Brazil, you will not only find yourself tanning here but also enjoying the beautiful scenery. In addition to being a great place for tanning and for enjoying the landscape, Copacabana Beach is rarely quiet. There is always something happening on this beach, whether it is tourists enjoying the summer sun during the day or music and drinking at night. Copacabana Beach offers it all to the tourist looking for a tan.

2. Waikiki Beach on the Hawaiian island of Oahu is a great place for sunbathers to sit back, enjoy the sun and watch the action all around them. While sitting on the sand beachgoers can watch the experienced surfers surf the large waves that swell off the two-mile long beach. Hawaiian beaches offer soft sand and spectacular sun. After tanning during the day, stick around to watch the beautiful sunset at night.

3. If you are looking to get a great tan during your trip to Europe make a stop in Greece. The island of Crete off of the south coast of Greece is surrounded by 100 miles of beach along its coastline. Try the area of Rethimno on the island’s northern coast. The beach is beautiful but tends to be crowded, as it is one of the most popular spots on the island. If you are looking for a place to tan in solitude then try elsewhere, as there are plenty of small, secluded beaches scattered around the island where you will be more than likely to catch a few rays.

4. Baby Beach located on the coast of Aruba is a great place for sunbathers. The ocean along the beach’s shore remains very calm and shallow making it a great place to put a low beach chair for the day. If you would rather work on your tan than take a dip, you can spread your beach towel out in the soft Arabian sand that lines the shore of Baby Beach. How great is this beach? It is even a favorite among locals, who make this one of the most frequently visited beaches among locals.

5. If you are looking for a great beach for sunbathing but are not sure about leaving the US, try Newpoprt Beach in Southern California. Newport Beach is one of the most famous and frequently visited beaches in California. When you arrive make sure to take notice of all the tan bodies around you, proof that sunbathing on this beach will get you that bronze tan you are looking for.

6. The worst part about tanning, other than the unexpected burn, is the tan lines that inevitably come with your sunbathing. What is the best way to avoid tan lines? By losing your bathing suit! Haulover Beach in Miami, Florida offers beachgoers the option of shedding their suits in pursuit of that all over tan. Located close to both South Beach and downtown Miami, Haulover Beach is the ultimate place for those seeking the perfect tan.

7. For the frequent traveler who is looking for a more unique place to bronze up, why not try the Sentosa Resort in Singapore. Sentosa offers guests the option of three beaches; Palawan Beach, Siloso Beach, and Tanjong Beach, which is probably the best bet for sunbathing. Tanjong Beach is typically frequented by those looking for a quiet day of solace and relaxation on the beach. The sun is bright, the water is cool and the conditions are perfect for tanning.

8. For a beautiful tan in a beautiful place, make sure to visit St. John Island in the Virgin Islands. One of the only seemingly untouched islands in the Caribbean, two-thirds of St. John is designated as a National Park, preventing any development on the land. There are a number of beaches on St. John from Cinnamon Bay to Hawksnest Beach but one thing is certain, whatever beach you choose on this island will be beautiful and great for tanning.

9. Down in southern Mexico you will find miles and miles of beaches in Cancun. Cancun boasts a fourteen mile peninsula that jets out into the ocean and provides a favorite beach-going spot for vacationers. There are a number of scenic beaches great for tanning in Cancun but think about trying San Miguelito, which is also home to a small, historic Mayan ruin.

10. If you have plenty of money to spend on your vacation, consider visiting the beaches of St. Tropez in France. A number of famous people make vacation stops at St. Tropez each year, pointing to the specter of this French getaway. The Plage Port Grimaud is undoubtedly the place to be seen catching rays in St. Tropez, as it is the most popular beach in the area.


