Title: 
4 Most Beautiful Thailand Beaches

Word Count:
416

Summary:
Thailand has one of the most beautiful beaches on the planet.  For those that have traveled there they know that the beauty of this untouched place makes for some of the best vacations in the world.


Keywords:
Thailand beach, Thailand, Phuket, Phi Phi, Krabi


Article Body:
Thailand has one of the most beautiful beaches on the planet.  For those that have traveled there they know that the beauty of this untouched place makes for some of the best vacations in the world.  This is coupled with the vast amount of historical culture that abounds the countryside and there is never a shortage of things to do in this country.  Because much of this land is untouched by development you will find that relaxation and peaceful living is more than possible.  The reaches of the mighty have not gotten this far and that means that you will get the very best in the vacation arena, especially when it comes to the Thailand beach areas.

Khao Lak is a wonderful Thailand beach.  Just a short drive from the airport, this paradise offers a remote vacation area like no other.  Thanks to the area being largely uninhabited, there is lush rain forest nearby along with a whole host of wildlife to be viewed.  The water remains warm in the November through December months and the fishing and scuba diving is out of this world.

Phuket Thailand Beach is another great spot.  Enjoy this resort November through March.  There is more than enough to do.  It is a bit more crowded than other beaches as this area thrives on the tourism dollars that it brings in.  The scuba diving is top notch in this area and you will also find some of the warmest most clear water in the world.  There are several nearby attractions to keep one busy for quite a few days.

Phi Phi Don Thailand beach is quite the turn around.  Once a remote and nearly unknown place, this Thailand beach came to life when Hollywood came in and filmed a movie here.  It is now considered to be one of the most popular beaches in the entire country and is frequented by many big names.  This is a site that you will not want to miss, as the views are breathtaking and the water warm and inviting.

West Raily Thailand beach is one of the undiscovered diamonds in the rough.  There is very little that is expensive here and one can stay at the “resort” for over a week and barely tap the budget.  The sands are milky white and the water clear.  Scuba diving is very popular here as well as the fishing.  This location is only accessible by long tail boat so plan for a bit of a long ride.


