Title: 
5 Ways How To Avoid Long Lines At Disneyland

Word Count:
358

Summary:
This article will help you avoid long lines at Disneyland


Keywords:
disneyland, disneyworld, attractions, breakfast with goofy, theme parks


Article Body:
If there's one thing that many visitors at Disneyland find annoying or frustrating, is the long lines for the rides. You can literally spend several hours of the day standing in line to ride popular attractions. These lines can be avoided in one of five ways.
 
One way to avoid getting stuck in long lineup is to purchase FastPass tickets for the rides that offer them. Do this early to ensure that you get to ride those rides earlier in the day.

Second, ride many of the popular rides later in the evening, while the majority of people are enjoying the entertainment. Disneyland has nightly entertainment, and this is a good time to find shorter lines. Of course, it will mean that you probably miss the entertainment, so if you can use one of the other options for shorter lines at Disneyland, you should probably do so. Besides if you are deciding to stay in Disneyland for a few days, you can always plan to explore the nightly entertainment on the last of day of your trip, it's great way to end your holiday.

Third, avoid going to Disneyland during busy times such as between Christmas and New year, spring break, the summer months, or on Saturdays.  

Fourth, get to the park early. The lines are shorter in the morning when the park first opens. Instead of jumping in line for the first ride you see, head for the rides that you really want to ride the most – the most popular rides, which includes "Indiana Jones," "Pirates of the Caribbean," "Matterhorn," "Thunder Mountain," "Haunted Mansion," and "Splash Mountain".

Last but not least there are websites that are so dedicated to providing informations on Disneyland such as mouseplanet.com or laughingplace.com. These sites can help you provide a better plan of attack sort of speak, by providing the best times to visit, which rides you should visit first, how to get cheap tickets and so on.

Planning your vacation to the happiest place on earth is becoming more critical every year to avoid long lineup as it will have tremendous impact on your overall experience and your wallet.


