Title: 
6 Ways to Enjoy a New England Christmas

Word Count:
666

Summary:
A New England Christmas is glistening snow on village homes with blazing fires… a holiday train ride with cookies and Santa… and a trip to Boston for an exciting Christmas show. Here are six popular attractions to take this Christmas in New England.


Keywords:
new england christmas, holiday season


Article Body:
What image does a New England Christmas conjure up in your mind?

A Currier and Ives scenes of a snow-bound village with festive decorations… skating on a frozen pond… or taking in an exciting holiday show in Boston? And if you have kids… no Christmas is complete without a ride on the Polar Express – New England style. 

Here’s where you can experience six holiday magic events this season… 


BRIGHT NIGHTS AT FOREST PARK

Billed as New England’s single most popular holiday destination, “Bright Nights at Forest Park” is entering its ninth season. Located in the Forest Park area of downtown Springfield, Western Massachusetts, it’s a wonderland of marvelous displays such as this year’ lost in time display where eight mammoth dinosaurs come to light along side an exploding volcano with flowing lava.

Entrance fee is $12 per car and the show begins on November 23, 2005 at 6:00pm and operates through January 1, 2006.



CHRISTMAS AT THE NEWPORT MANSIONS

Each holiday season the Newport Mansions of The Elms, The Breakers, and Marble House put on a stunning show of spectacular evergreens, trees, thousands of poinsettia plants, fresh flowers and wreaths.  The great entrances and hallways display magnificently decorated trees. The dining tables are set with period silver and china, and mannequins are dressed in authentic costumes.

You can see this stunning display of seasonal decorations at these Newport Mansions yourself November 12 through to January 1, 2006.


NEW ENGLAND CHRISTMAS AT OLD STURBRIDGE VILLAGE

Between December 1, 2005 and January 1, 2005 Old Sturbridge Village in Massachusetts will be transformed so you can experience a 19th century New England Christmas. 

Old Sturbridge Village has always been one of my favorite places to visit and discover about life in 19th century New England. Now with the holiday season upon us, the village once again displays its ability to provide a discovery experience in a fun and entertaining way, and with a New England Christmas flavor.


THE BOSTON CHRISTMAS SEASON

Whether you delight in taking in the seasonal favorite of Boston Ballet’s “The Nutcracker” or soaking up “glad tidings of joy” at Symphony Hall with the Boston Pops Holiday Series, Boston knows how to celebrate the season with special shows and concerts. And of course there’s always the Candlelight Carol Concerts at Trinity Church in the Back Bay area, and the famous “First Night” celebration. 

The Boston Pops kicks off on Friday, December 9th at 8:00pm and continues through to their annual New Year’s Eve celebration on December 31st at 10:15pm. The Boston Ballet performs “The Nutcracker” at The Opera House, and the season starts on November 25th with performances through December 30th.


POLAR EXPRESS – CONNECTICUT STYLE

The North Pole Express is a popular nighttime steam train ride with live readings of Christmas stories, hot chocolate and cookies, sing-along, and holiday surprises. Special guest Santa Claus has a treat for all children, and you’re guaranteed lots of fun and lots of extras.

Essex Steam Train’s North Pole Express operates Fridays through Sundays December 2 through December 23, with special early trips on November 25-27. Tickets are sold at the Essex Train Station in Essex, Connecticut - call (860) 767-0103 or toll free 800 377-3987.


NEW ENGLAND CHRISTMAS TIME AT SANTA’S VILLAGE

Way up north is the village of Santa. You can visit him in the summer, and you can visit him in the fall, but the best to time visit him is… Christmastime! Santa’s Village is located in Jefferson, New Hampshire - a spot deep in the White Mountains. Santa is preparing for his world tour on Christmas Eve, but you can take a peek for a brief time if you hurry.

The village opens for the Christmas season on Friday November 25th from 11:00am to 7:00pm.  Then every Saturday from November 26th through December 17th from 11:00am to 7:00pm, and every Sunday from November 27th through December 18th from 11:00am to 6:00pm.


Make your New England Christmas magical this year by experiencing one or more of these attractions. It is after all the season to create unforgettable memories.


