Title: 
A fresh look at Ibiza

Word Count:
336

Summary:
Ibiza represents a perfect mixture where everyone can find what they want.
Beautiful beaches, white sand coves, crystal clear shorelines and deep-sea waters are within minutes drive of anywhere. The island’s interior is home to dense pine-forests, refreshing rolling hills, traditional whitewashed villages and extremely friendly locals.
Ibiza Old Town itself is steeped in culture and history and is one of the most beautiful towns in the Med.


Keywords:
villa ibiza holiday vacation spain balearics rental accommodation concierge apartments beach luxury high class getaway break travel family retreat booking activities sea ocean mediterranean


Article Body:
Ibiza has long been one of the world’s premier summer-sun holiday destinations, although in recent years many visitors (including myself) have been put off by the seedy ‘Ibiza uncovered’ style publicity that the island has received.  Thankfully, the White Island is now moving away from this tacky lads-on-holiday image, and is once again attracting a more up-market style of tourism.

This is hardly surprising if you take a moment to consider what Ibiza can offer to the discerning visitor, with fabulous white beaches adored by the rich and famous for decades, unspoilt pine forests, white-washed villages, a whole range of restaurants offering the best of world cuisine, world-famous nightlife and some of the friendliest locals you will ever meet.  

Ibiza is again becoming ‘the’ place to be seen, so for those after a piece of the limelight, strut your stuff through the old Ibiza institution Pacha, or have a long lunch on the beach at the Jockey Club, and you are guaranteed to be rubbing shoulders with the rich and famous.

If you are looking for a relaxing week away from it all, take my advice and go in early May; the weather is perfect, and the island is all but deserted compared to the madness of August.  You will get beautiful beaches all to yourselves, and great service at all the restaurants.

The level of service has improved greatly as well, with activities such as water sports, hot air ballooning, mountain-biking, boat rental and yoga easy to find and well-priced.  For the full rock-star service, I would recommend hiring a villa complete with chef, maid and chauffeur; some villa rental agents are even offering a concierge service through which you can book tables at exclusive restaurants, get VIP tickets to the best clubs or arrange other services such as masseurs in your villa.

If you are planning your summer holidays, think twice before rejecting the idea of Ibiza as your chosen destination…I think you will find yourselves as pleasantly surprised as I was.


