Title: 
A Gem In Miami

Word Count:
437

Summary:
If you're thinking about basking under tropical sunshine, then Miami Beach's Royal Palm Resort is the perfect place. Among the many Miami hotels and travel lodges, this one offers cheap rates for a four-star hotel. Plus, it faces the beach, so you wake up to the sounds of the waves crashing on the shore and an amazing beach view. Located at central South Beach, clients can literally walk to each and any of the attractions. The Convention Center is just a short distance away, ...


Keywords:
Miami hotels and travel, discount hotels


Article Body:
If you're thinking about basking under tropical sunshine, then Miami Beach's Royal Palm Resort is the perfect place. Among the many Miami hotels and travel lodges, this one offers cheap rates for a four-star hotel. Plus, it faces the beach, so you wake up to the sounds of the waves crashing on the shore and an amazing beach view. Located at central South Beach, clients can literally walk to each and any of the attractions. The Convention Center is just a short distance away, as well as other fine-dining restaurants and exclusive boutiques. The clubs and bars that dot the area around the resort also make for an exciting nightlife. It also takes only 20 minutes to reach the airport from the hotel. The Miami Ballet, Ocean Drive, Botanical Gardens, and other tourist attractions are less than a mile away from the hotel. Downtown Miami, Coral Gables, Coconut Groves, and other tourist attractions are just a short drive away.

The hotel offers a $200 rate for an overnight stay in an ordinary room. But the ordinary things that are in Royal Palm are not ordinary at all. It is a 17-story affair of Art Deco design. The beachfront resort, like most Miami hotels and travel lodges, offers luxurious suites and rooms all with Atlantic Ocean views courtesy of the private balconies. All rooms have basic amenities which include hair dryers, coffee makers, mini bars, data ports, and voice mail. These may seem very basic, but these are essentials especially for an individual traveling for business. Rooms vary and range from guest rooms, suites, non-smoking, double-bedded, and single-bedded rooms. Families with pets need not worry about living their pooches and cats at home since the hotel allows guests to bring pets, provided that these pets have been checked and vaccinated. Located near the beach, the hotel even provides an outdoor pool and a whirlpool. People who are concerned about their fitness and bodies need not sweat the lack of exercise during their stay because the hotel has an on-site gym and fitness center.

Personal services are thoroughly provided at the hotel. Aside from the multilingual staff that speaks English, French, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew, German, Greek, and Portuguese, the hotel also features accessible ATM machines, a laundry and dry cleaning service, baby-sitting, a laundry room, and safety deposit boxes. The hotel also has concierge services and the standard room services. Business travelers can also avail of copying services, courier, Internet, fax, computer use, printing services, and car rentals. Truly, in terms of personal services and world-class facilities, Royal Palm is indeed a gem among the many Miami hotels and travel lodges.


