Title: 
A new Look, A new Name!  Philadelphia gets it's first Real Boutique Hotel!

Word Count:
516

Summary:
With the completion of the first phase of renovations, the Rittenhouse Square Bed and Breakfast embraces its fresh, innovative lock with a distinct new name-- Rittenhouse1715, A Boutique Hotel.  One of Philadelphia's most exclusive and luxurious hotel accommodations, Rittenhouse 1715 guarantees impeccable service infused in a locale of refined and sophisticated style.  Intimate surroundings, unique design, a dedication to detail, and the highest standards of hospitality  will define the boutique


Keywords:
Philadelphia boutique hotel, Philadelphia retreat, Rittenhouse Sqaure, Philadelphia accommodations, Pennsylvania lodging 


Article Body:
A new look, a new name: The Rittenhouse Square Bed and Breakfast transforms into Philadelphia's prmiere luxury accommodation -- Rittenhouse 1715, a boutique hotel. 

With the completion of the first phase of renovations, The Rittenhouse Square Bed and Breakfast embraces its fresh, innovative look with a distinct new name -- Rittenhouse 1715, A Boutique Hotel.  One of Philadelphia's most exclusive and luxurious hotel accommodations, Rittenhouse 1715 guarantees impeccable service infused in a locale of refined and sophisticated style.  Intimate surroundings, unique design, a dedication to detail, and the highest standards of hospitality will define the boutique hotel experience at Rittenhouse 1715.   
	
Located off Philadelphia's world-renowned Rittenhouse Square, Rittenhouse 1715 is a boutique hotel of sixteen stately rooms outfitted in the finest furnishings and decorated with exquisite artwork.  The original Walter Cope designed carriage house and adjacent Georgian townhouse have been combined to enhance the hotel with an inviting drawing room, and an elaborate, two-story presidential suite.  Led by famed masterminds of design, Peter Salgado and Kip Saucier of Salgado Saucier, traditional and eclectic styles reminiscent of the Rittenhouse Square area have been uniquely intertwined throughout the establishment to create an ambiance of chic elegance and modern comfort.  Perfectly complimenting the historical foundation of Rittenhouse 1715, the design updates provided by Salgado Saucier introduce a new level of style and tranquility that truly makes each guest feel that have checked-in to their own personal sanctuary.  

Upon entering the new Rittenhouse 1715, the reception lobby welcomes guests with stunning yellow and white striped walls, sleek black granite floors, a sparkling chandelier, plush floral couches, and eclectic antiques.  Beyond these walls lies the newly appointed, open drawing room with fireplace and mirrored flat-screen television. Guest are invited daily to enjoy an intimate wine reception hosted by the property's general manager in this beautifully decorated open oasis of warm, inviting shades of rust, gold, and brown.  All rooms are uniquely designed to include such exquisite amenities as handsome fireplaces, over-sized flat-screen television, and top-of-the line pillow-top mattresses outfitted in the finest of Egyptian linens.  As a perfect compliment to the antique furniture and fine artwork of each boudoir are private, luxurious Italian marble and tile bathrooms finished with large, chrome Grohe waterfall showerheads, modish Rudy Art Glass doors, and premium Frette towels and robes.  The premiere highlight of the renovation, however, is the grand presidential suite where a sleek spiral staircase transcends from the loft, king-size bedroom down to an elegant black and green-hued living space complete with comfortable couches, powder room, bar and large screen television.  

Ideal for the romantic couple's coveted weekend escape, the savvy businessmen's retreat to Philadelphia, or the vivacious young adult's hideaway, Rittenhouse 1715 offers a dynamic experience just a few steps away from world-class cuisine and culture.  Permeated by the prestigious history and character of Philadelphia, this boutique hotel encompasses all that could possibly be desired in a five-star oasis.  Transformed and enlivened by exquisite renovations, Rittenhouse 1715, A Boutique Hotel, is truly exceptional in every way. 

Plans for Phase II of Rittenhouse 1715 highlight the addition of seven new bedrooms, including a large, two-room suite.  Completion of Phase II is slated for the end of 2006.

###


