Title: 
A peek at the Other Orlando

Word Count:
581

Summary:
Orlando is a magical city. It offers mega-entertainment at Disney World and Universal Studios. But what about the other Orlando? This article takes a brief look at the most popular dinner theaters in the Orlando area.


Keywords:
travel, orlando, dinner theater, disney, universal studios


Article Body:
You have permission to publish this article electronically or in print, free of charge, as long as it is printed as is and the author byline is  included. URL s must appear as hyperlinks.

Most people think of Orlando and think of Disney World or Universal Studios. And a trip to these attractions makes a wonderful vacation experience. But what do you do after you get your fill of Mickey Mouse? Or in the wintertime when the parks close early, what do you do with all those hours between park closing and bedtime?

Believe it or not, Orlando has many more attractions. They are not as big or as glamorous as Disney World or Universal Studios but they make for every pleasant day trips and evening excursions.

For instance, if you find yourself with your evenings free, consider a Dinner Theater experience. There are several in Orlando and they are all an excellent and entertaining way to experience a dinner event. Lets look at some of the more famous and enjoyable ones.

Arabian Nights - Arabian Nights, voted the #1 dinner show in Orlando, Florida, features a magical tale of romance, adventure and excitement. More than 60 of the world's most beautiful horses and 30 dazzling performers combine with special effects, thrilling music and incredible stunts to create a unique and spectacular Broadway-style production. Savor a three-course prime rib, grilled chicken breast or vegetable lasagna dinner served with unlimited beer, wine and soft drinks.

Dolly Parton’s Dixie Stampede Dinner & Show - One of Orlando’s most exciting dining and entertainment experience. Dixie Stampede features: magnificent horses; American Buffalo; world-famous racing ostriches and racing pigs; music; singing and dancing; a spectacular patriotic finale written by Dolly; and audience participation. A fabulous four-course feast is served during the show. Beginning in November and continuing through December, Dixie Stampede is transformed into a holiday fantasy with twinkling lights, old-fashioned Christmas costumes and holiday music. Elves from the North and South Poles compete in a friendly rivalry while serving up a festive Christmas feast.

Medieval Times Dinner & Tournament - Medieval Times is more than a dinner attraction – it’s a window in time where the glory, chivalry, valor and honor of old burst to life in thrilling authentic tournament action. While guests enjoy a medieval banquet six brave knights compete in games of skill astride magnificent Andalusian stallions. Lances splinter against shields of steel, broad swords spark and a champion emerges, to the cheers of the enthusiastic crowd. Voted "Best Dinner Show" by the readers of Florida Living Magazine.

Pirate’s Dinner Adventure - Pirate’s Dinner Adventure is an energetic and adventurous, interactive dinner experience, captivating audiences of all ages. Set sail on the high seas on-board a pirate ship for swashbuckling thrills, combined with the perfect blend of comedy, romance, action and adventure. Enjoy breathtaking feats of aerial agility and spectacular musical talent as you dine on The Port of Call Feast. Pirate’s Dinner Adventure is a bounty of hidden treasure waiting to be explored, truly making it “World’s Most Interactive Dinner Show”.

Sleuths Mystery Dinner Shows - Enjoy a delicious dinner with unlimited beer, wine, and soft drinks while watching a hilarious whodunit with improvisation and audience participation. Mingle with outrageous characters! Observe anything suspicious! Interrogate the suspects! Solve the crime!

Each show provides hours of good food and excellent entertainment for all ages. So next time you book your Orlando Vacation, be sure to leave some time in your schedule to check out one or more of these excellent shows.


