Title: 
A Quick Break From The Rat Race In Georgia

Word Count:
407

Summary:
If you live in the South, the opportunity to take a day or weekend off from life is a must. Georgia offers the perfect combination of convenience and things to do.


Keywords:
georgia, savannah, rat race, south, plantations, historic, inns, bed and breakfast, relaxing


Article Body:
If you live in the South, the opportunity to take a day or weekend off from life is a must. Georgia offers the perfect combination of convenience and things to do.

A Quick Break From The Rat Race In Georgia

When planning a short trip in the Southern United States, Georgia is a great place to start. Georgia is great for romantic retreats, honeymoons and family trips. Georgia offers mountain views, fabulous beaches and historic sites that are all perfect for that short relaxing stay. Whether you're looking for adventure or just a place to take in the beauty of the genteel South, Georgia offers all you are looking for and more.

One great city to visit in Georgia is Savannah. Cloaked in an air of mystery and the subject of books and movies, Savannah, Georgia is a quintessential Southern city. The city was founded in 1733, as Georgia's first city, when the colony's founding father James Oglethorpe landed there with the colony’s first 120 settlers.  Savannah features 21 squares in a grid, making it America's first “planned city”. The exquisite architecture is characteristic of early Southern plantations and opulent 19th century mansions. While here, walking and trolley tours are available to see the city's many historic buildings and sites.

Savannah isn't all history, however. While here, one can shop to their heart's content, whether in the Historic District's cobblestone River Street shops or in the Southside's shopping malls. Savannah also has an antique district at the streets of Broughton and Bull, where those who prefer history in their souvenirs can find that as well. Eating in Savannah can be a grand experience, too, with restaurants here ranging from haute cuisine to down home country cooking and everything in between.

When planning a few days off in Georgia, you need somewhere to stay. Savannah offers historic inns and bed and breakfasts in the Historic District that can't be beat. One such inn is the newly restored Planters Inn, located on Abercorn Street. This inn offers Southern hospitality and warmth that's characteristic of Savannah, as well as fine dining at the Olde Pink House Restaurant. Packages are available for your stay at the Planters Inn, such as a Romance package that includes champagne and a horse drawn carriage ride.

Staying in Savannah, Georgia is an experience you won't soon forget. If you like to look at great architecture, shop, enjoy fine food and accommodations, this city is definitely for you!


