Title: 
A Serene Paradise At Santi Mandala Resort & Spa For Your Bali Villas

Word Count:
595

Summary:
What drive people to choose villas for their holidays? Peace, serene, complete privacy and stay off the beaten track are the main reasons. Villas are situated in the countryside offer beautiful natural landscape around them as well. These tendencies involved the enchanting island of Bali in the late 90s.

The financial crisis in 1997 affected the whole of the Asia Pacific region – people didn’t want to spend money. But Bali had a mini building boom. This was largely thanks ...


Keywords:
ubud,bali,hotel,villas,accommodation


Article Body:
What drive people to choose villas for their holidays? Peace, serene, complete privacy and stay off the beaten track are the main reasons. Villas are situated in the countryside offer beautiful natural landscape around them as well. These tendencies involved the enchanting island of Bali in the late 90s.

The financial crisis in 1997 affected the whole of the Asia Pacific region – people didn’t want to spend money. But Bali had a mini building boom. This was largely thanks to a domestic market that saw the island as a safe haven – people started moving their businesses and families here, buying land and then building on it.

In this sense, the financial crisis played a part in kick-starting the villa movement. Bali’s built environment is changing. From concrete building condominiums-like owing planted tropical gardens to the serene, small resort villas style with its natural and friendly surroundings. It was in the late 90s that the concept really caught on, with a raft of boutique style properties springing up based on private accommodations with their own plunge pools and other amenities.

I worked as a tour guide for many years in Bali, and many guests asked me about places which offer serenity and complete privacy for a very restful vacation. I went around and checked out the island in order to gain a resort or villas which appeal to my guest’s desire. I found some nice resorts or villas are situated either in countryside or at coastal areas.

Many people seized the opportunity of the tourism booming in the 80s and 90s, and business of properties zoomed. Many hotels and villas were built, and one of the excellent hotel resorts is Santi Mandala Resort & Spa.

Santi Mandala Resort & Spa is situated on a secluded place at the bank of Panaraga Giri River makes it an evidence as a peaceful retreat in the natural environment of Batuan, just outskirt Ubud – Bali and just 45 minutes drive from Bali’s Int’l Airport. It’s built in the excellent blend of Balinese traditional architecture and international amenities standard, using most local materials as stones, soft fabrics, precious woods, bamboo and alang alang (the most popular grass for roof construction). There is a very good reason why grass is a favorite material for constructing roofs. It keeps out the tropical heat in a way that genteng (stone tiles) cannot. It also provides excellent protection from the tropical deluges that are common during the rainy season.

You will be amazed by the luxury bath room but in Balinese style and the marbles floor. Each luxurious villa (Garden Villas, Jacuzzi Villas and Private Pool Villas) offers complete privacy with private entrance and gardens and modern comforts as Air Conditioning, Refrigerator, Hot and Cold Water, IDD phone lines, Satellite Television, Personal VCD & CD Player, Radio & Music Cassettes, Personal Mini Bar, Room Service and Complimentary seasonal fruits is provided upon arrival along with daily afternoon tea service, either in the rooms or at poolside.

Guests can enjoyed also the services and facilities of the resort as Restaurant, Swimming Pool, Laundry & Dry Cleaning, 24 hours on call doctor, Shuttle Service to the center of Ubud, Money Changer, Rent Cars, Udaya Art Shop and Gallery, Library, Lila Mandala Open Stage, Saba Mandala Meeting Room and Dirga Saoca Spa. Resort Activities as Jogging & Tracking, Cycling, Yoga and Meditation, Wedding Organizer.

Since few years ago I brought hundreds of guests to Santi Mandala Resort & Spa and they leaved Bali with a very memorable holiday, because they enjoyed the excellent services performed by a strong team of friendly staffs.


