Title: 
A Short Break In Rome Is Better Than No Rome At All.

Word Count:
449

Summary:
There are many reasons to take a short break in Rome, and this article gives you a few more, and recommends a great "Insider" resource to get you started.


Keywords:
short break in rome,rome short break,travel rome.rome travel


Article Body:
Ahh, Roma.  It should be written in every person's destiny that they shall travel to the Eternal City at least once in their lifetime, to experience the romance, the history and the charm that is the capital of Italy.  A short break in Rome may seem like a compromise, but in reality, even a few days is enough to experience a wonderful slice of life so different to one's own existence.  To sit and ponder life's mysteries while enjoying affogato in a piazza, or to throw coins in the Fontana di Trevi and wish for a return to this magical place, are moments that justify making the journey for a short break in Rome.

Whether you are Catholic, Jewish or Buddhist, stopping by the Vatican both inspires and humbles; if not for the religious significance, then to marvel at the historical nature.  Exploring the Coliseum, you will learn about the magnificent gladiators who fought for fame and glory there.  Back on the streets, you will dodge haphazard fleets of Fiats and Ferraris, whilst checking out the fashionistas who seem to loiter at every corner to see and be seen.  Even a short break in Rome will transplant untold fascination into your heart.

Accommodation choices vary from tiny hole-in-the-wall overnighters to grand hotels that you won't want to leave, even to go sightseeing.  Depending on the time of year you choose to take your short break in Rome, you could save significant sums of money, or you could be at a disadvantage.  Similarly, planning in advance could serve you well, whereas sometimes, last minute deals are irresistibly affordable.

Many travel agents can plan weekend itineraries for you that will encompass all the absolute must-visits of Rome.  Sure, you may have to make like a text-book tourist and stay on the well-worn paths of millions who have gone before you, but when time is of the essence, you certainly don't want to waste it on studying map books, asking for directions in an unfamiliar language and learning the hard way how not to be taken advantage of.  A short break in Rome can be as exhausting and exhilarating as any two-week bus tour through the whole of Europe.

The key to making the most of a short break in Rome is to pack light, plan ahead and be well rested before you arrive.  And be prepared to sleep very little since there is always something to see in beautiful Roma, day or night, winter or summer, rain or shine.

If you're ready to book your short break in Rome, visit our website for all the advice you'll need, and some great deals and "Insider" secrets about travel to the eternal city.


