Title: 
A Wonderful Continent Called Africa

Word Count:
447

Summary:
Africa is called the “Dark Continent” for its supposed mystery, but there is nothing mysterious about a destination site like this. You should definitely consider an Africa vacation.

Africa is probably the most diverse continent on the planet and a vacation there can hold just as much variety. No matter what you are looking for, an Africa vacation can fulfill all your trip desires.

We think of Africa first as a land of jungles and wild animals and that is certainly true...


Keywords:
travel, vacation, outdoor, africa, continent, camping


Article Body:
Africa is called the “Dark Continent” for its supposed mystery, but there is nothing mysterious about a destination site like this. You should definitely consider an Africa vacation.

Africa is probably the most diverse continent on the planet and a vacation there can hold just as much variety. No matter what you are looking for, an Africa vacation can fulfill all your trip desires.

We think of Africa first as a land of jungles and wild animals and that is certainly true. For an Africa vacation, you may want to consider some of the amazing safari adventures, which will take you to places that most people have only dreamed about. Imagine elephants and lions in the wild; that can be part of an Africa vacation. Although primitive in its beauty and feel, being on a safari does not mean living like an “animal”. Throughout the numerous game preserves and national parks, where you will see nature at its best, are also some of the finest accommodations in the world.

On your vacation, you can stay in guest lodges that rival anything in the cosmopolitan areas for luxury and service. Most of these venues will make you feel like you are a king or queen of all you survey, with excellent amenities you would not necessarily expect on an Africa vacation.

However, the jungles and savannas of Africa is only part of the picture. In South Africa, you can find hotels and resorts that rival any in Las Vegas or other showplace resorts. How about an Africa vacation that includes top line entertainment, casino gambling, unsurpassed beaches? All these are available for both singles and families, accommodating all types of budgets.

In the north, beautiful beach resorts dot the Mediterranean coast as well as the Red Sea. Here a vacation turns into a desert odyssey not unlike Palm Springs, California, except with miles of white sand beaches.

Africa is countless island resorts on the Indian Ocean too. An Africa vacation here could be a private bungalow at a small resort where fresh fish is caught for lunch literally outside the windows of your room. The waters in these areas are pristine and unspoiled, perfect for diving and sailing.

In the north west, Morocco and the Canary Islands beckon with a completely different atmosphere and style. In addition, an Africa vacation here on the Atlantic coast has a completely different environment and culture to experience. You might feel that you are in Monte Carlo or Cannes but with much less expense and a more relaxing atmosphere.

An Africa vacation can be just about what you want it to be, with a variety that you will not find anywhere else.


