Title: 
Advantages of Booking Hotels in Central Rome.

Word Count:
481

Summary:
Saving money when lodging in Rome downtown hotels.


Keywords:
rome hotels


Article Body:
This article has the purpose to explain what we intend for central Rome and the benefits to reserve an hotel in this area.
For central Rome we mean specifical districts like the Spanish Steps, Trevi Fountain, the Pantheon and Trastevere.

The district of Trastevere was once inhabited by the medieval working class and since the 1970 has been filled up with new hotels, tour buses and sidewalk vendors. The original people of this district belong to a mixed ancestry, mainly Jewish, Roman and Greek and for decades they were known for speaking their on dialect in a language rougher than that spoken in central Rome. 
Trastevere remains one of Rome's most colorful quarters, even if it is a bit overrun and it is know as a " city within a city".
The hotels in central Rome allow visitors to save money when sightseeing because people can cover all the major monuments in few hours with a pleasant promenade.
In fact if you have booked an hotel near the spanish steps you can see how Rome is entered by Porta del Popolo built in the Renaissance period by the architect Vignola from the designs of Michelangelo.

As you can imagine, you can't walk anywhere in Rome without stepping on several layers of Roman archaological remains. it's often frustrating for the people who actually live there: they can not do anything above or below ground without having to stop and carefully consider what is being lost and found.

A trick you have to know after you make your reservation is to ask for a corner room. Corner rooms are usually larger, quieter and have more windows and light than standard rooms, and they do not cost necessarily more. Always ask if the hotel is renovating: if it is, request a room away from the renovation work. You can also inquire about the location of the elevators, restaurants and bars in the hotel, all sources of annoying noise.

Rome center offers also some splendid opportunities for lovers of the performing arts. All major performers pass through Rome and the city has traditionally been the hot spot for theater production in Italy. The scene positively burgeons in summer when a mind-boggling range of performances is staged throughout the city in various indoor and outdoor venues.
Rome is also a sort of culinary melting pot for distinctive regional styles.

Pesto and marinara sauce, ravioli and risotto, cannoli and tiramisu are often all found together on the same menu. Another advantage of Rome's size and cosmopolitan charachter is that you can find very good restaurants downtown with food from around the globe: Rome is really your best opportunity to hunt out different types of cuisine.

The Eternal city wasn't built in a day and,to accommodate its tourists, it continues to expand with more hotels, opening hours for museums and other attractions, especially during holidays and the summer months.


