Title: 
Adventure Travel in Nepal

Word Count:
412

Summary:
With its majestic Himalayan Mountains and fascinating local culture, Nepal is a favorite destination for adventurous travelers.  Each year thousands embark upon the experience of a lifetime to spend days or weeks in the breathtakingly beautiful country of Nepal. Here's why....


Keywords:
adventure travel in Nepal, mountains of Nepal, Himalayan Mountains, Kayaking in Nepal, John Riggin


Article Body:
With its majestic Himalayan Mountains and fascinating local culture, Nepal is a favorite destination for adventurous travelers.  Each year thousands embark upon the experience of a lifetime to spend days or weeks in the breathtakingly beautiful country of Nepal.

Most adventure travelers in Nepal will be treated to magnificent views from high in the mountains.  They will wander through pure forests and past clear mountain lakes, rivers and waterfalls.  They'll visit remote Buddhist monasteries and shrines and see tiny mountain villages, full of friendly locals.

Trekking expeditions in Nepal are quite popular.  They typically involve a small group of people who have been given a list of equipment, such as hiking boots, to bring with them to Nepal.  Once they arrive in the country they set off together to explore.   There is usually a trekking staff that comes along on the trip and carries most of the camping equipment and even the travelers' bags.  They set up the camp, cook meals and break camp, leaving the traveler to enjoy the trek without the physical hardship of toting heavy packs.  

Treks are available for people with various abilities. While a person should be in good shape for these treks, one does not need to be a tri-athlete to take part.  There are more strenuous treks for those in great physical condition, as well as easier treks.  Many of the easier treks are appropriate for families and allow children to participate.  Some companies rate the treks they offer by level of difficulty, to help travelers judge which trek would be best for them.  

While trekking is one of the most popular forms of adventure travel in Nepal, it is by no means the only one.  There are many ways to enjoy the great outdoors in beautiful and mysterious Nepal.

- The Himalayas make Nepal a favorite destination for mountain climbers.  There are well over 100 peaks open to mountain climbers in Nepal, including the famed Mount Everest.

- The mountains of Nepal also have trails for mountain bikers of varying skills.

- Nepal offers challenging climbing cliffs for avid rock climbers.

- While rafting and kayaking in Nepal, adventurers can float along picturesque mountain rivers enjoying tranquil views, far from the well-traveled paths.

- Finally, adventure travelers in Nepal can choose to experience a jungle safari from a jeep or the back of an elephant.  Nepal's wildlife reserves and conservation areas boast a variety of unique animals, including the Royal Bengal Tiger and the Greater One Horned Rhinoceros.


