Title: 
Alcatraz: Visiting The Past

Word Count:
980

Summary:
Six Flags Marine World is known as not just an amusement park, but also an animal park. The park offers a wide variety of roller coasters as well as some more traditional amusement rides. When visitors are done with the rides they can then enjoy animal exhibits as well as shows that feature the parks animals. Six Flags Marine World is in a league of its own, partially because there is great care and attention paid to ensure this, but also because there is simply nothing to co...


Keywords:
vacation, california, travel, lifestyle, fun, real estate, night life, theme parks, east bay


Article Body:
Six Flags Marine World is known as not just an amusement park, but also an animal park. The park offers a wide variety of roller coasters as well as some more traditional amusement rides. When visitors are done with the rides they can then enjoy animal exhibits as well as shows that feature the parks animals. Six Flags Marine World is in a league of its own, partially because there is great care and attention paid to ensure this, but also because there is simply nothing to compare the theme park to. Marine World is in the business of entertaining, providing a fun environment, and putting together a little bit of everything that people love to see.

Marine World began as a nonprofit animal park in Redwood City, California in 1968. In 1985 the park relocated about 55 miles away to Vallejo, California and thought the move necessitated a name change to Marine World Africa USA. The old location became known as Redwood Shores. In 1996 after losing money and poor profits since it’s move in 1985, Six Flags purchased the park at which time the park attendance grew. Six Flags added some theme park attractions that were not related to animals such as the roller coasters to draw in bigger crowds. Over the first few years Six Flags Inc. added several major roller coasters, putting the park more in like with the Six Flags line of parks and so the parks name was then changed to Six Flags Marine World. Premier, now known as Six Flags owned the park for several years before adding the Six Flags name to the park name.

The park has not abandoned its animal roots. The park continues to add animals, exhibits, and improve existing exhibits to make the park more attractive and visitor friendly. It’s true that the park has become not just an animal park, but also an amusement park. Six Flags added huge roller coasters such as Medusa, Vertical Velocity, and Roar. The park is a haven for the Looney Tunes characters that entertain old and young alike. Medusa draws in many customers because it is the parks biggest ride and is the only floorless roller coaster in the regional area. Medusa is also notable because the first drop is 150 feet and the ride lasts over four minutes. The newest ride is known as the V2 and has been responsible for bringing in a lot of traffic to the park, as well. The Roar roller coaster is popular because it is the only wooden roller coaster in the park. With all of the additions of great exhibits, awesome rides, and a one of kind atmosphere the Marine World theme park brings in major revenue to the city of Vallejo. Not only is the park popular in and around Vallejo, the park is a competitor with the other big amusement park in the area, which is San Francisco Bay’s Paramount Great American that is located in Santa Clara.

The park has been a huge success because it is one of a kind. No other park has been able to combine animals and amusement rides the way that Marine World has been able to. The great thing about the park is that it truly offers something for everyone. Even if members of the family do not like roller coasters, they can enjoy other amusement park rides and the animal exhibits some family fun attractions are the White Water Safari, Monkey Business, and Wave Jumper. Marine World also features many live shows and special events that will have the old and young alike excited and entertained for their entire visit. The park is considered the only one of its kind in the United States, offering more rides and attractions than any other theme park in California and perhaps even in the United States! 

Not only does the park offer one of a kind experiences, it also offers great prices for families to enjoy themselves without breaking the bank. When you purchase your tickets online you can get a one-day admission for $39.99, when you buy a kid online pass you’ll pay just $29.99, otherwise general admission is $49.99 for adults and $29.99 for children 48 inches and under. While these aren’t admission prices that you would want to pay if you were going to visit every day, they are well worth the price of family entertainment every now and again.

If you’ll be traveling to the area to visit Six Flags Marine World, you’ll also want to think about where you will stay during your trip to Vallejo. There are many affordable options right nearby so that you will not have to worry about finding your way to the theme park or your hotel after a long day of fun and entertainment. Whether you’re old or young or have a little of both in your group you’ll find your lodging options in and around Vallejo comfortable and affordable. Some great lodging choices may be:

The Holiday Inn Napa Valley Gateway
1000 Fairgrounds Dr.
Vallejo, California 94589
(800) 533-5733
(707) 644-1200

Best Western
1596 Fairgrounds Dr.
Vallejo, California 94589
(877) 544-9655

Quality Inn
44 Admiral Callaghan Lane
Vallejo, California 94591
(866) 643-1061
(707) 643-1061

Hilton Concord
1970 Diamond Boulevard
Concord, California 94520
(925) 827-2000 

A trip to Six Flags Marine World will be an unforgettable experience for the whole family. If you live around the area you’ll definitely make time to visit the park every year to visit your favorite attractions and see if there is anything new to entertain and delight you. Even if you don’t live in the area you’ll find yourself wanting to return again and again because you just can’t find this type of theme park anywhere else in the world. If you love roller coasters and classic amusement park rides and you also have a love of animals big and small, you’ll find that the Six Flags Marine World is your favorite theme park to visit.


