Title: 
Are looking to buy a property or home in the Costa Brava region of Spain?

Word Count:
396

Summary:
Are looking to buy a property or home in the Costa Brava region of Spain? There are many types of properties available including villas, apartments, townhouses, farmhouses, waterfront villas, fincas and apartments, both new and old, throughout the region and the timing could not be better.


Keywords:
costa brava, spain, spanish property, holiday, vacation


Article Body:
Are looking to buy a property or home in the Costa Brava region of Spain? There are many types of properties available including villas, apartments, townhouses, farmhouses, waterfront villas, fincas and apartments, both new and old, throughout the region and the timing could not be better.

The Costa Brava was the first of the Spanish "bucket and spade" resorts that started off the major UK fascination with Spanish holidays, however this surge in popularity was accompanied by a surge in high rise building to accommodate the tourists resulting in a severely blighted landscape with hardly an inch of coastline left unspoiled in the major tourism areas - this actually led to revised building regulations in Spain which makes it impossible to happen again anywhere on Spains coastlines.

Over the last few years the local government in this region have been toiling hard to return the area to the naturally rugged "wild coast" of Spain and have made major headway in revamping this resort area into a once again beautiful Spanish holiday destination (this used to be the area that the Spaniards used for vacations!)

Due to the overdeveloped reputation the property prices in the Costa Brava have not risen as high as some of the other regions and therefore now is the time for prudent investors to be thinking about buying (or holidaying) in this area.

Bear in mind however the rock bottom prices that were available in Spain are long gone, prices in the Costa Brava region are cheaper but they are not bargain basement! 

The main coastal areas of the Costa Brava are  Roses, Tossa de Mar, Lloret de Mar, Pineda, Santa Susana, Calella, Malgrat and Blanes. Each offers a unique experience on Spains "wild coast" along with great deals on homes within walking distance of secluded and charming beaches.

How to get there;
Barcelona International Airport (BCN) is located just south-west of the Costa Brava in the municipality of El Prat de Llobregat.

Girona International Airport (GRO) is the Costa Brava's resident airport, & is located some 40 km from the coast & 12 km from Girona itself.

There are many property companies offering discounted inspection trips to the Costa Brava to check out there estate listings, this can be a very cheap way to experience the beauty of the region. Offers available are in the range of £50-100 per person for a 3-5 day trip including hotels and flights!


