Title: 
Are you planning a trip to Dubai ?

Word Count:
326

Summary:
Dubai is the second largest of the emirates comprising the United Arab Emirates. It was established in the late 1950’s to serve a tiny coastal settlement. Today, Dubai is a modern metropolis with a population of over 700,000.  It offers its citizens the finest in modern comforts. It is known internationally as a premier tourist destination.


Keywords:
Dubai hotels, dubai accomadation, hotels in dubai, discounted hotels, cheap hotels, car rental,


Article Body:
Dubai is the second largest of the emirates comprising the United Arab Emirates. It was established in the late 1950’s to serve a tiny coastal settlement. Today, Dubai is a modern metropolis with a population of over 700,000.  It offers its citizens the finest in modern comforts. It is known internationally as a premier tourist destination.

Dubai has something for everyone, from vacationers seeking a  relaxing break away from the pressures of work, to active tourists looking for a new, exciting experience. The emirate is an international conference, exhibition, and leisure travel destination.

Dubai has a seemingly endless variety of unique vacation opportunities! Some of the highlights are desert safaris, dune driving; exploring wadis (dry river beds) in four-wheel-drive vehicles; sand-skiing; moonlit Arabian desert barbecues, complete with traditional entertainment; camel racing, horse racing and falconry; cruises in wooden dhow on Dubai Creek or into the Gulf; exploration of the old city souks (markets) and creekside dhow quays. Photographic possibilities include traditional architecture; majestic mosques,
magnificent palaces, camel and goat herds, ancient windtowers, dusty Bedouin villages, lush oases and palm groves, and dramatic sunsets. 

 
The best time of the year to visit Dubai is between November and April, when the weather is coolest. Ramadan, which takes place at a different time each year on the western calendar, is the Muslim month of fasting  and is strictly adhered to throughout the UAE. That means that it's illegal, not to mention rude, to eat, drink or smoke in public from sunrise to sunset during your stay While Dubai's official language is Arabic, many people speak English,  particularly those who are in business or commerce.


Dubai is an incredible place to shop. You can explore everything from modern shopping malls to traditional souks to markets.  As a result of Dubai's low custom duties, goods purchased in Dubai may be less expensive than goods purchased in other countries.  For great shopping experiences, try to visit Bur Juman Centre and Al Ghurair Centre.


