Title: 
Areas To Visit On Mediterranean Yacht Charters

Word Count:
685

Summary:
Mediterranean yacht charters are one of the most popular destinations for a sailing vacation. This area is the birthplace of modern civilizations. You can explore ruins dating to 3000 BC. The area offers a unique blend of the old and the new. The landscape is the result of a variety of geological activity over millions of years, including earthquakes, volcanoes and shifting of the earth’s plates. The result is breathtaking scenery for sailing. 

Options for Mediterranean Ya...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Mediterranean yacht charters are one of the most popular destinations for a sailing vacation. This area is the birthplace of modern civilizations. You can explore ruins dating to 3000 BC. The area offers a unique blend of the old and the new. The landscape is the result of a variety of geological activity over millions of years, including earthquakes, volcanoes and shifting of the earth’s plates. The result is breathtaking scenery for sailing. 

Options for Mediterranean Yacht Charters
 
Bareboat Yacht Charters

Bareboat charters work just as it sounds. You are chartering the ship and nothing else. If you are qualified, you can skipper the boat yourself. You will have to show proof of your sailing experience before you are allowed to skipper a chartered yacht. Most companies will take you out on a short trip and have you demonstrate your abilities. If you are unable to do this, you will not be able to take the boat without a crew. 

If you don’t have the sailing experience, you will need to hire a skipper. In most cases, the charter company or yacht broker can help you find someone. In some cases, you can arrange for sailing lessons, at an additional cost. Bareboat trips include no supplies or food. You will need to shop before you arrive at the marina. 

Crewed Charters

With a crewed charter, you can generally take a larger yacht. The size of the crew varies according to the ship and number of guests. You will at least have a captain and a cook. The cook will prepare your meals according to your tastes. The menu will be discussed prior to the cruising. 

Some people choose this method because they aren’t qualified to sail. Others can sail, but prefer to relax on a yachting vacation and not have the responsibility of being the captain. You will have more time to relax in luxury or enjoy activities like water skiing or scuba diving with a crew to look after the boat. 

Flotillas

A flotilla is a group of yachts sailing together. This is a great option for less experienced skippers. You captain your ship and gain experience in sailing. The flotilla leader is on a nearby yacht to offer guidance, assistance and support as needed. If this is your first time sailing on your own, a flotilla is an excellent option. A charter broker can put you in touch with a group and help you plan your trip. 
 
Areas to Visit 
 
Once you have decided how you will travel, you will need to decide where you want to go on your holiday cruise. When you charter sailing yacht in Greece, the company will help you set your itinerary. The Ionian Sea offers seven islands: Paxos, Antipaxos, Corfu, Ithaca, Lefkas, Zakynthos and Kafalonia. There is plenty to explore in this area that ranges 180 nautical miles from the northern to southern islands. 

The Ionian boasts beautiful weather and excellent wind conditions for smooth sailing. The islands offer beautiful beaches and lush vegetation. For evening, there are lively ports bustling with activity and night life. Your crew will help you find activities that interest you and assist in making reservations. 

You may prefer to sail the Aegean. The Greek Cyclades Islands consist of fifteen islands in the Aegean. Your charter company will help you set an itinerary and decide which islands to visit. The beautiful waters of the Aegean offer great sailing. The summers are cool and the winters are mild. There is a good mixture of villages and country side to visit on your trip. 
 
Choosing a Company for Mediterranean Yacht Charters
 
You can either book your trip through the charter company or through a charter broker. The fees for a broker are paid by the charter company. In either case, look for a reputable company that has been in business for ten years or more. Brokers deal with charters in Europe, the Caribbean and the Mediterranean. A good broker will be familiar with the charter companies and the ships. Ask for references from people who have travelled with the company in the past.


