Title: 
Argentina Travel - Buenos Aires, Mar del Plata, Iguazú Falls, Tierra del Fuego, and Patagonia

Word Count:
528

Summary:
Argentina is on the way back from the economic crisis of the last few years. If you are looking for a travel destination, Argentina is amazing and cheap.


Keywords:
Argentina Travel, Buenos Aires, Mar del Plata, Iguazú Falls, Tierra del Fuego, Patagonia


Article Body:
Argentina is on the way back from the economic crisis of the last few years. If you are looking for a travel destination, Argentina is amazing and cheap.

Economic Woes

While Argentina has unlimited beauty, it also has unlimited corruption. The massive corruption finally lead to an economic crisis at the turn of the century. With the currency devalued and jobs hard to find, Argentina was a decidedly dangerous place for travelers. At one point, the country was going through Presidents faster than I go through coffee. At one point, the country went through five of them in a month! Wait, that might not be such a bad idea. Regardless, things appear to have stabilized and the country is back on the travel map. So, what’s to see?

Buenos Aires

Prior to landing in Buenos Aires, you are strongly encouraged to glue your jaw shut. Buenos Aires is a city of jaw-dropping beauty. In many ways, you will feel as though you have magically been transported to Vienna. The European impression is overwhelming. The city is elegance itself. If you’re a meat eater, make sure you experience one of the steak houses. You won’t be disappointed.

Mar del Plata

You’ve been doing sit ups, right? The Mar de Plata is the hot beach area. Literally. Damn hot, sometimes. If you wish to pursue a little melanoma research, this is the place. If you prefer to pass on the cancer research, you can hit the Mar de Plata Aquarium, play golf on five different courses. The area is also rife with discos. Try the ones on the “Noisy Avenue”, but don’t mention my name. There were…problems last time I was there.

Iguazú Falls

If you like waterfalls, this is the place for you. The Iquaza Falls are twice as wide and taller than Niagara Falls. The Falls actually consist of over 250 cascades that came into existence due to a volcanic eruption. If you can, try to visit the falls in the spring or fall as it is ungodly hot and humid in the summer.

Tierra del Fuego

Welcome to the end of the world. At least, that’s the hook for Tierra del Fuego. Ushuaia, the capital of Tierra del Fuego, is the southernmost city in the world. From the city, you can take the “end of the world” train to see incredible snow covered mountain ranges in the Tierra del Fuego National Park. Words fail me, but the area is definitely worth visiting. Come on, you rode the elephants in Thailand, didn’t you? Patagonia

No, we are not talking about the clothing line. Patagonia is located in a vast area below Buenos Aires and is famous for uncompromised beauty. Greater Patagonia is actually split between Chile and Argentina. The section in Argentina is filled with glaciers, national parks and so on. I can’t possibly describe it, so I’m not even going to try. Just know that you will not be disappointed.

Argentina

From glaciers to beaches, from elegant cities to friendly little towns, Argentina is a top travel destination. With the economy stabilizing, now is the time to go.


