Title: 
Australia Vacation

Word Count:
437

Summary:
Australia Vacation - Get away to enjoy romance and adventure in the land down under!


Keywords:
Mexico Vacation, Mexico Flag, travel, vacation, flag


Article Body:
Australia Vacation – Walk on the Wild Side!

Travel is great isn’t it? And when you get home you organize all your pictures and souvenirs. And you think, “wouldn’t it be great if I could find a beautiful Australian Flag to remember my vacation by that doesn’t cost too much to add to my whole vacation experience?” Well, I’ve found a great site that sells great looking flags for not a lot of money and their shipping is super fast – www.FlagWave.com .

Now, for vacation ideas, I highly recommend Australia! Here are a few tips and facts to help you on your way to this vacation paradise.
  
Money
You should not carry too much cash on you when you travel here.  That said, you are not going to be able to use a credit card or write a check when you are visiting Australia.  A sensible way to make sure that you have enough money is to get travelers checks.  This is a way that you will be able to get what you need and then some and also have the added security of knowing that you are covered if they are lost or stolen. Australian currency is decimal with the dollar as the basic unit.  There are exchange shops where you can cash in and get the local currency that you will need. 
 
Climate
The climate is moderate and there is not as hot as some people might thing.  The temperate will depend on what time of the year you are there.  Usually you will find nice temperatures and a great weather pattern.  You will want to bring lightweight clothing for your trip and a couple of sweaters or sweat shirts just in case. 

Customs
Laws prohibit any drugs, firearms, or any other foreign objects.  They have these laws to protect the wildlife and citizens of their country.  Unlike some foreign countries, there is not limit on the amount of Australian cash that may be brought into or taken out of Australia.
  
Tipping 
Unlike the United States, tipping is not expected and services charges are not automatically added to hotel and restaurants.  For any special services, a tip of ten percent is good.  Taxi drivers do not expect a tip, but will appreciate anything that is offered to them. Feel free to tip when you feel you’ve had great service. 
 
Information centers
You will find local tourist information and free advice in most places in Australia.  Look for the signs that have an "I" on them.  This will guide you to get the information that you need. Have a great vacation!


