Title: 
Bali Hotels Or Bali Villas

Word Count:
821

Summary:
Dear Reader,

One says that traveling is not an exact science, to combine between their cultures, traditions, countries and different languages sometimes are not easy. Trust an expert, contact your reputable travel agent may be important.

Most people come to Bali want to see and enjoy its arts and cultures, its fabulous nature’s views, its nice beaches, its friendly people, for pure relaxation and some for business and stay on. Whatever is one’s aim, the accommodation is...


Keywords:
bali,hotels,villas,vacation,travel,indonesia,accommodation


Article Body:
Dear Reader,

One says that traveling is not an exact science, to combine between their cultures, traditions, countries and different languages sometimes are not easy. Trust an expert, contact your reputable travel agent may be important.

Most people come to Bali want to see and enjoy its arts and cultures, its fabulous nature’s views, its nice beaches, its friendly people, for pure relaxation and some for business and stay on. Whatever is one’s aim, the accommodation is one of the most important aspects in order to get the comforts and memorable holiday.

There are a myriad of accommodations to choose from in Bali, from five-star luxury Bali hotels or Bali Villas to budget one just a few dollars a night. The main tourist hub is in the southern triangle formed by Sanur, Kuta and Dusa Dua. For those who prefer the comforts of home and the relaxation of the beach, this is a good starting place. Other beach areas are Lovina in the north, Candi Dasa in the east and Canggu and Yeh Gangga in the west.

If you are a sun’s lover, then stay at Kuta (a wild and crazy kind of place) or its quieter sister beaches Legian and Seminyak up the road, Candi Dasa on the east coast, Sanur and Nusa Dua in the south or Lovina in the north. If you are a culture’s lover, then stay in Ubud in central Bali.

Thus for your accommodation what do you prefer Bali Hotels or Bali Villas? Both hotels and villas shall give you some advantages. For those who want a hotel that has a nice beach front or hotel by the sea or a room that facing the ocean, Bali Hotel is an easier choice, because most of luxury Bali Hotels that line the coast of Bali. There are plentiful of hotels either in building style or in Balinese style bungalow, both offer modern comports and excellent service, but without maximum privacy. Most Bali Hotels have one or more restaurants and bars that offer a wide range of local and international cuisines. Also sports and Spa facilities are usually available like tennis, billiards, squash, fitness center, games room, and some with golf course.

For those who want to enjoy a total privacy and perhaps a perfect Balinese lifestyle, stay at a private villa is a right choice. One can enjoy the luxury of a beautiful private villa with air-conditioned bedrooms and tropical bathrooms to dream about, spacious living and dining areas and spacious terraces, a lush tropical garden with your own private swimming pool, and well-trained house staff to take care of everything around the clock. And you’ll appreciate the comfort and informality you can only experience in a private home.

Instead of staying in hotel rooms (bed, two chairs, dressing table, TV set and telephone, wardrobe, small bathroom), your family will enjoy this truly Balinese experience. And you have much more space, more informality, more privacy, and more personal service than even the best hotel can provide.

You can even save up to 50% - 70% of meals and drinks if you stay at a private villa with full furnished kitchen if you decide a self-service vacation. Order your groceries, favorite snacks and drinks to be brought for you at the local supermarket or wine wholesaler. You’ll be surprised at the low cost when you pay the same prices as locals do. Or just ask the villa manager to do so, and a trained cook (with reasonable extra cost) to prepare you delicious meals or any special diet. And also Bali’s 21% tax & service charge and airport transfer is included on villa rental.

There are numbers of luxury villas at Bali’s hotels & resorts. If you prefer a hotel environment and services and don’t mind to pay inflated prices for accommodation and food & beverages, you can also book some villa-like accommodation at one of luxury Bali’s hotels through a reliable travel agent and still enjoy savings and extra benefits.

So, do not hesitate to choose the island of Bali in Indonesia for your memorable holiday. Bali is the most enchanting travel destination in the world, its year-round pleasant climate, its friendly people; its fabulous nature’s views, its nice beach and the absence of major criminal activities guarantee a completely relaxing stay. Because of the physical beauty of the island and its wide variety of attractions, Bali has become for many experienced travelers the “ultimate island”.

Go online and search your preferred Bali hotels or Bali villas or contact your reliable travel agent. The wide choice can be confusing especially for first time visitors, and it’s sometimes difficult to select the right Bali Hotels or Bali Villas. So just let your travel agent knows your personal needs and preferences that he can recommend those hotels or villas it feels will suit you best.

Thanks you reader and have a nice day.


