Title: 
Best places for the African Safari

Word Count:
506

Summary:
If you decide to go to Africa, you surely shouldn’t miss the opportunity to see its nature, its animals and birds, its savannas and deserts, its jungles and waterfalls.


Keywords:
hotels


Article Body:
If you decide to go to Africa, you surely shouldn’t miss the opportunity to see its nature, its animals and birds, its savannas and deserts, its jungles and waterfalls. For many centuries the most of the Africa countries have been colonies of the great European powers – mainly Great Britain and France. Nowadays Africa is free and open for tourists. Kenya, South Africa and Tanzania have become very popular travel destinations. Now, in Africa there are a lot of natural parks where you can enjoy carefully preserved flora and fauna. Several decades ago, only desperate courageous people risked traveling across Africa. In the beginning of the XXI century one can make his trip to Africa with all the necessary comfort. 

The best and the world-known safari destinations are Masai Mara in Kenya, Serengeti on Zanzibar (Tanzania), Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe, Okavango in Botswana and Kruger Park in 
South Africa. Serengeti National Park, the Ngorongoro Conservation Area, and the Maasai Mara protect the greatest and most varied collection of terrestrial wildlife on the Earth.

Masai Mara is a land of rolling hills, woods and acacia trees. It is watered by the Mara and Talek rivers and opens onto the Serengeti plains of Tanzania. No trip to Kenya would be complete without a visit to Masai Mara. It’s one of the most-promoted parks in Africa, and it’s really worth visiting. Here you can enjoy comtemplating leopards, rhinoceros and over 450 bird species. 

The Serengeti ecosystem is one of the oldest on earth. Its climate and nature have barely changed in the past million years. The Serengeti is the jewel in the crown of Tanzania's protected areas and makes up the significant part of the country area.

Victoria Falls is a world heritage site sometimes is called one of the Seven Natural Wonders. Victoria has the largest curtain of falling water on earth. Its sound is spreading a lot of miles around. 

The Okavango Delta is really unique. It is the largest inland delta in the world. Instead of flowing into the sea, the annual flood of water flows inland, spreading over 15 000 km of the Kalahari sand in a maze of lagoons and channels. The countless islands that emerge from its waterways gave birth to several diverse ecosystems which are home to vast numbers of birds. The crystal clear waters support many kinds of fish. The heart of the delta is accessed by air only.

The Kruger National Park in South Africa is one of the oldest and largest reserves in Africa. The park boasts a tremendous variety of game and birdlife in its numerous habitats. The south is home to some of the most popular restcamps as the wildlife is prolific. The central region consists of extensive grassy plains that are interrupted by lush riverine vegetation along the Olifants and Letaba rivers. The northern region is quite remote and thus, less popular.

A trip to all these reserves and park will take a lot of time, but you can make several voyages to the Black continent.


