Title: 
Bonita Springs - Enjoy Tropical And Relaxed Florida Lifestyle

Word Count:
436

Summary:
There is a place that the sun usually always shines and the ocean water remains blue. Where the beaches offer up beautiful shells with the ebb and flow of each wave and the sun rises and sets in spectacular colors. It is a place that remains tropical year long and the fishing and golfing possibilities never ends. It a wonderful spot that history has preserved and economic growth has blessed. It is the quaint town of Bonita Springs.

Bonita Springs is located northwest of Mi...


Keywords:
bonita,springs,florida,travel,destination,tropical,vacation,relocate


Article Body:
There is a place that the sun usually always shines and the ocean water remains blue. Where the beaches offer up beautiful shells with the ebb and flow of each wave and the sun rises and sets in spectacular colors. It is a place that remains tropical year long and the fishing and golfing possibilities never ends. It a wonderful spot that history has preserved and economic growth has blessed. It is the quaint town of Bonita Springs.

Bonita Springs is located northwest of Miami, Florida and is between Fort Myers and Naples on the Gulf of Mexico. History's popular story of Juan Ponce de León places him close to Bonita in 1513 searching for the fountain of youth. Although the tale is a mystic metaphor, one visit to this resort-like town can truly restore the spirit and reenergize the soul.

The 33 square miles of Bonita Springs offers an amazing amount of recreational diversity. The average annual temperature is 74 degrees Fahrenheit allowing most outdoor activities to take place through the year. Often referred to as "The Gateway to the Gulf" the beaches of Bonita Springs are unsurpassed in beauty. Heading west until the water Lovers Key State Recreational Area awaits with white sand, mangroves and natural wildlife.

For the outdoors enthusiasts there are many different activities to enjoy. The natural mangroves settings of the Imperial River are not only perfect for snook and trout fishing but also the kayaking and canoeing is superb on the quite river. Local charter captains offer offshore fishing excursions as well as full and half days trips on the near by waterways as well. Bonita Springs and the surrounding area are home to public and private golf courses built by top designers such as Gordon G. Lewis and Robert Trent Jones, Sr. Many of these must play courses as located on the grounds of newly designed golf clubs and housing communities.

Bonita is not only rich in natural charm and the perfect spot for vacation; it also is an ideal place to relocate. Diverse in culture and population, Bonita has its share of museums and malls as well as outdoor activities. Residents enjoy homes ranging from extravagant to family affordable with a multitude of housing alternatives. Located off I-75 and close to the newly constructed Southwest Florida International Airport, Bonita fits into most business and travel lifestyles.

Things to know:

• Climate/Weather: Average annual temperature is 73.9 degrees Fahrenheit. The spring/summer average is 84 degrees; the fall/winter average is 71 degrees.

• Nearby Access Routes: I-75, I-95,

• Chamber of Commerce: Bonita Springs Area Chamber of Commerce, 25071 Chamber of Commerce Drive, Bonita Springs, Florida 34135, 1-800-226-2943


