Title: 
Book Vegas Online: 5 Reasons To Book Your Vegas Trip Online

Word Count:
456

Summary:
With over 30 million visitors a year, Las Vegas is the entertainment capital of the world. From the gorgeous mega-luxury hotels to the exclusive Vegas shows to the unbeatable buffets to the 24 hour casinos, Las Vegas has something for everyone. 

More and more travellers are booking their Las Vegas trips online. So should you book your next Las Vegas vacation online? Here are the top 5 reasons to consider booking your Vegas vacation online:

1) Save Money 

You don't ha...


Keywords:
las,vegas,book,online,on,line,vacation,vacations,trip,trips


Article Body:
With over 30 million visitors a year, Las Vegas is the entertainment capital of the world. From the gorgeous mega-luxury hotels to the exclusive Vegas shows to the unbeatable buffets to the 24 hour casinos, Las Vegas has something for everyone. 

More and more travellers are booking their Las Vegas trips online. So should you book your next Las Vegas vacation online? Here are the top 5 reasons to consider booking your Vegas vacation online:

1) Save Money 

You don't have to pay travel agent commissions which can amount to significant savings of hundred of dollars. Plus there are direct-to-customer online travel services that give you special discounts just for booking online.

2) Convenience

Book your Vegas vacation from the comfort of your own home. You don't have to go out to pick up the tickets or haggle with travel agencies. You simply shop, click, book and print - easy as that. (and if you have questions, there's usually a toll free number you can call for 24 hour support)

3) Larger Selection of Las Vegas Packages: 

Instead of just choosing from the latest travel agent specials you can choose from EVERYTHING that's available. You know what you want in a Las Vegas vacation better than anyone else - and you can easily browse everything that's available to you online. 

Many online travel agents upload new vacation packages weekly so you can monitor the new packages being offered and find an amazing deal.

4) Easy To Search & Book

With easy search functions and large travel package databases, you simply plug in your search parameters and get a listing of possible trips, prices and descriptions. The easy search functions make it simple and fun to find the Las Vegas vacation of your dreams

5) Research Hotels and Find Out What Other Travellers Think - BEFORE You Get There

Ever travelled some place, got there and thought - 'I wish someone had told me what this place was really like before I spent all this money!'?

Now you can know what your Vegas hotel is like before you stay there. Many online travel agents have pictures, detailed descriptions and even downloadable brochures on each Las Vegas resort. 

And some online travel agents are also introducing a Travellers' Opinions section where people can leave feedback and rate their hotel vacation experience. They rate hotels and also leave comments on their experience. This is a great tool for you to not only find out which hotels are popular with other travellers but you can usually also pick up other Vegas travel tips that can save you money.

Considering all this, it's no wonder that more and more people are booking their Las Vegas trip online, it's easier, cheaper and you end up making a better choice (and thus having a more enjoyable vacation).


