Title: 
Branson Group Travel Guide

Word Count:
513

Summary:
Branson is known as the Live Entertainment Capital of the World and boasts 49 live performance theaters performing 120 shows a day. With a reputation built on love of God and Country, this all-American town of just over 6,000 dazzles tourists each year with its brand of music, humor and down home appeal.


Keywords:
Group Travel Services, Group Travel Tours ,Singles Group Travel, Travel Tour Groups, Group Cruise Travel, Corporate Travel Planning, Tourism Destination Marketing, Travel Planning Business, Small Grou


Article Body:
Branson is known as the Live Entertainment Capital of the World and boasts 49 live performance theaters performing 120 shows a day. With a reputation built on love of God and Country, this all-American town of just over 6,000 dazzles tourists each year with its brand of music, humor and down home appeal. 

The citys performers are known world wide for their talent and appeal, but also have a reputation for family dynasties. Performers like Shoji Tabuchi, the violinist, and Utahs Lowe Family bring a whole other dimension to keeping it in the family. 

Branson Theater Links

Visitors typically spend 3-4 days in town, sometimes seeing as many as eight shows during their trip. Since there is no airport in town, many elect to drive in and get around on the motorcoach. Having that isolation has done nothing to hurt the success of the city, though. In fact, many choose to include day trips to Springfield and other nearby destinations in their trip, which helps the surrounding communities economies as well.

Heres an overview of what Branson has to offer, giving you an idea of how it came to be the Live Entertainment Capital of the World! 

Branson History

With a history of failed or shortly lived industries like lead mining and mussel shell collection for the button industry, the people of southwestern Missouri struggled to make a living. Families barely survived, leaving them vulnerable to manipulation and outlaws.

During the Civil War, the area surrounding Branson was considered a no-mans-land. Lacking law and any men to enforce it, women and families were terrorized and attacked by bushwhackers, men who would rape the women and then pillage the house for food, supplies and valuables. In 1865, what is generally considered to be the very first street shootout occurred in nearby Springfield, when Wild Bill Hickock killed a man named David Tutt in a quarrel over a watch. 

After the chaos of the 19th century, the city of Branson was founded in 1903. In 1907, Shepherd of the Hills was written, the immensely popular novel depicting life in the Ozark Mountains. The book, like the Da Vinci Code of today, spawned a generation of people to visit the Ozark Mountains and the actual farm where the novel was written. 

In 1959, the first run of the Shepherd of the Hills play was performed in the Old Mill Theater on the farm. The farm has since come under ownership of one of the plays former actors, Gary Snadon, who vowed to keep the Shepherd of the Hills Homestead and Outdoor Theater true to the novel and the time. 

Population

6050 permanent residents (2000 U.S. Census)

Weather

Average highs per season: Spring: 59o-85o Summer: 82o-90o Fall: 47o-82o Winter: 44o-59o

Indian Summer lasts well into October, leaving plenty of warm weather for those wanting an escape from the shortening days and ever chillier wind. 

Precipitation (monthly average): 3.59 inches 

Like many Midwestern cities, precipitation in Branson is slightly higher in the spring and in November, with an average of 4.25.

This article is sponsored by: www.leisuregrouptravel.com , www.grouptravelblog.com , www.grouptraveldirectory.com


