Title: 
Burj Dubai's Towering March

Word Count:
500

Summary:
The world's tallest man-made structure, Burj Dubai, is on its way to achieving completion, but there is a lot more to be explored apart from it, which should make your stay in Dubai be a very special one.


Keywords:
Burj Dubai, Downtown Burj Dubai, Dubai hotels, UAE, world's tallest man-made structure, building, tower


Article Body:
Dubai's upcoming landmark, Burj Dubai Tower, is creating ripples around the world. The building is expected to be completed by June 2009, and it will stand to be the world's tallest at that time. Emaar, a UAE construction giant developing it, has yet not disclosed its official height, but the building is expected to measure above 800m on its completion. There will be more than 160 floors and a 200m high spire carrying various communication equipments in the entire building. Most of its first 108 floors will be lent either to house one of Dubai hotels or to accommodate private apartment owners, however, the business community will also have its own share in the form of exclusive offices. 

Dubai's government has worked for over two decades now with intent to shifting away from the chiefly oil driven economy to a diversified free-trade, retail and tourism oriented one. They have succeeded as well in doing so to a very large extent, since the share of oil revenues in the GDP has fallen drastically in the last few years. However, they will require continuing on to make this transformation last permanently, and that's where the projects like Burj Dubai Tower, Dubai Marina, The World, The Palm Islands, The Dubai Mall, serviced apartments and various Dubai hotels come into this picture.

Dubai is expecting to receive 15 million visitors by the year 2010, and needs to add more supplies in the hospitality and retail sectors by that time. The Downtown Burj Dubai, which is going to host the Burj Dubai Tower, apart from many other developments, is expected to fulfill this growing need. The township will have nine Dubai hotels, over a dozen and half residential towers, one low-rise township called The Old Town, the world's largest mall, The Dubai Mall, and loads of leisure outlets such as cafes, stylish boutiques, restaurants etc to add more to its charm.

The Downtown Burj Dubai will provide roughly 30,000 serviced apartments, penthouses, villas and several Dubai hotels for staying in the city. The 63-story tall Dubai Lake Hotel & Serviced Apartments is one of these projects, which will offer exclusive apartments and studios for outright sale. The tower will also host a 210-room luxury hotel, which will be managed by a leading luxury hotel group. Another housing development is called Boulevard Crescents, which will comprise of 1, 2 and 3 bedroom luxury residential suits and penthouses. A very beautiful landscape encircling these apartments will add more value to one's stay in Dubai. 

The world's largest mall, The Dubai Mall, is also located in the same area, where you can find the goods of your preference to fulfill your desires. This retail giant will house over a dozen built-in smaller malls, each catering to the needs of an individual market. The mall will be spreading over an area of 12.1 million ft², and will begin its operations by August 2008. These developments, along with the spirited rise of the tower Burj Dubai, are bound to add a significant amount of growth in the city's tourism and retail sectors.


