Title: 
Canada Accommodation, Vacation Homes and Holiday Rentals

Word Count:
614

Summary:
Planning your vacation in Canada can be very easy and low budget considering a host of vacation rentals and private accommodation available across the most sought after tourist destinations. Many vacation rentals offer a choice of vacation homes, condos, villas, and cabins to meet various needs and tastes of the vacationers.


Keywords:
Canada,British Columbia,Victoria,Alberta,Nova Scotia,Ontario,Quebec,Prince Edward Islands,rental,List,listing,villa,vacation rentals,holiday rentals,holiday homes,vacation homes,travel,lodging,condo


Article Body:
For the more adventurous and nature lovers, Canada offers some of the best vacationing areas in the world. Winters are wonderful in Canada; with snow clad mountains and skiing "highways". Adventure and relaxation in cities, parks and mountains of Canada can be an everlasting memory, if planned and budgeted properly. 

Most favored vacationing spots in Canada are the British Columbia, Victoria, Alberta, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Quebec and Prince Edward Islands. The majestic coastal mountains of British Columbia house some of the North America's largest ski resorts, Blackcomb and Whistler Mountain. These towering mountains heighten to about a mile from the valley and are strewn with skiing trails for all levels. They have about 200 trails covering more than 7,000 acres of treacherous mountain terrain. 

These skiing trails are often rated high when compared to popular, expensive and always over booked resorts like Colorado, Vail and Aspen. This is due to the magnificent ski slopes and a host of pedestrian-only villages that have multiple shops, restaurants and a variety of nightlife. The best part of the Whistler Resort is its social and community atmosphere. Added to this the value of US dollar in Canada contributes to the attraction of skiers from across the globe. 

Glacier National Park is another of the major tourist and vacationing attraction. Known for its breath-taking views of waterfalls, lakes and high mountains and covering about a million acres, this “Crown of the Continent" is very sparsely populated compared to the Yellowstone or Yosemite national parks in the USA. This house of the grizzly is all the more attractive because of the wildlife which is another major attraction for vacationers is Canada. The wildlife spotting in Canada can be exhilarating when one spots a wolf, mountain lion or a Rocky Mountain sheep.

Planning your vacation in Canada can be very easy and low budget considering a host of vacation rentals and private accommodation available across the most sought after tourist destinations.

Many vacation rentals offer a choice of vacation homes, condos, villas, and cabins to meet various needs and tastes of the vacationers. Many of these vacation rentals are also well staffed. Out for offering are pet friendly rentals, vacation rentals on the beach or close to the water, child friendly vacation rentals, vacation homes on a golf course or close to one, ski vacation rentals on the mountain or located close to the chairlift.

Cottages are a preferred mode of vacation rentals in Canada. Many people dive to cottages for the hammock-swaying snoozes, exceptional natural air quality and outdoor pursuits. The distance from millions in a crowded city is to soothe ones nerves in natural surroundings of most of Canada’s known tourist attractions have made them the favorite of vacationers. 
Renting a vacation home or cottage is easy, pay the rent for as many weeks as you need. You can rent direct form the owner or through various rental agents strewn all over the place. Choices are easy to make using the book or a brochure available with most agents. The only disadvantage compared to a hotel is that you may end up doing most of the housework, if the vacation home or the private accommodation is not staffed. 
The cost of renting or leasing a vacation home or private accommodation is very nominal compared to the cost of hotels. Many owners have turned towards part time renting their properties due to rising cost of real estate and cost of living.
The private accommodation and vacation home renting can bring down your costs of vacationing in the skiing paradise down drastically, allowing you to budget more for your shopping or adventure needs, or even to extend your holiday a little more.


