Title: 
Car Hire In Nice

Word Count:
420

Summary:
The stylish French city of Nice is situated on the southern coast of the French Riviera. Nice has long been a popular destination for both summer vacations and short city breaks and offers excellent scope for car hire touring.


Keywords:
car hire nice


Article Body:
The stylish French city of Nice is situated on the southern coast of the French Riviera. Nice has long been a popular destination for both summer vacations and short city breaks and offers excellent scope for car hire touring.

Things To See/Do in Nice:

A walking tour of the city center is one of the best ways to see what Nice has to offer in terms of tourist attractions. The cours Saleya is a good place to start. Here the pretty flower market, the beautifully baroque Chapelle de la Miséricorde and elaborate Palais Lascaris are guaranteed to catch your eye. Some of the finest beaches on the Côte d'Azur are to be found in Nice. The silver sands of the Promenade de Anglais will definitely impress sun-worshipers and water sports enthusiasts.

However, there's so much more to Nice. Car hire makes fascinating places like the remote crest-top district of Cimiez accessible. This cultural hub boasts a range of absorbing museums and galleries including Musée National Message Biblique Marc Chagall, Musée Matisse and The Opéra de Nice.

Meanwhile, the charming old Provençal town of St Paul makes for another worthy rental car drive. The town that captivated Matisse, Chagall and Picasso is just a 12-mile journey from Nice. Other world-class attractions reachable by hire car include Grasse, known as the capital of perfume, the ritzy principality of Monaco, with its famous casinos and of cours Saint-Tropez, the French Riviera's most exclusive beach holiday destination.

Eating Out/Nightlife/Accommodation in Nice:

Eating out in Nice offers something to suit every budget and taste. Italian and Provençal influences are obvious in the cuisine of Nice. Cheap local specialities worth a try include 'socca' pancakes, 'stockfissa' cod stew, and 'pissaladiére' anchovy and olive tart. At La Rotonde in The Hotel Negresco, you're guaranteed to pay less for good quality fare.

Nice has a lively and varied nightlife. Cours Saleya is the place to head for after dark entertainment. Here bars and clubs such as Barrio Latino, Oxford and Bodeguita del Havana keep night owls amused well into the early hours of the morning.

In terms of accommodation, Nice offers something for everyone. Whether you're looking to live it up in luxury at a chic establishment like Hi Hotel on Avenue des Fleurs or you simply want to rest easy with cheap and cheerful lodgings at a budget hotel such as Le Petit Palais on Avenue Emile-Bierckert, you'll find Nice offers something to match every budget.


