Title: 
Cheltenham City guide, including hotels

Word Count:
1100

Summary:
Located in the heart of the scenic Cotswolds, Cheltenham is a city
famous for many things – its horseracing and award-winning gardens
being just two of them.


Keywords:
Tours, Travel, Reservation


Article Body:
Located in the heart of the scenic Cotswolds, Cheltenham is a city famous for many things – its horseracing and award-winning gardens being just two of them. Then, of course, you have the Regency architecture of the city centre and the lively shopping district, elements that come together to bring vivacity and life to this Gloucestershire city. Further, the city also proves to be a fine base from which to explore the surrounding Cotswolds, home of gently rolling hills and quaint, charming villages.

Places of interest

When you come to Cheltenham, you will soon discover that the draw of the city lies in its appearance, for it has long been considered to be one of Britain’s prettiest towns. Accordingly, many of Cheltenham’s places to visit are ones that focus on scenic displays and historic buildings. Some of the most popular tourist destinations are:

The Holst Birthplace Museum. Originally the home of the famous composer Gustav Holst (of ‘The Planets’ fame), this Regency home shows life as it was in the Victorian period – and incorporates a working Victorian kitchen.
Pittville Park & Pump Room. The beautiful Park contains two lakes, a golf course and spacious, well-tended lawns, whilst the historic Pump Room contains the drinkable spa waters that originally made Cheltenham famous.
The Imperial Gardens. For almost two hundred years, the gardens have been enjoyed by thousands of visitors every year – not least due to the 25,000 bedding plants used annually to create the extensive floral displays.
Sudeley Castle & Gardens. Located just eight miles outside of Cheltenham, the castle is open during the summer and visitors have the chance to see some of the beautiful paintings and artefacts inside.

The Promenade. Cheltenham’s most famous street boasts pavement cafes, smart shops and an attractive history. Lined with trees and boasting Regency architecture throughout, it is considered to be the most picturesque part of the city.

Things to do

During your stay in Cheltenham, you’ll discover a pleasing variety of attractions to visit and things to do, whether you’re a family or couple, or just visiting alone. Throughout the year, the city is buzzing with activity, playing host to many festivals and events, such as the Literature Festival. Just a few things to see and do include:

Cheltenham Town Hall. The elegant hall plays host to festivals in the city throughout the year, and at the same time stays a concert programme in which the music ranges from the classical to the contemporary.
The Everyman Theatre. This hotspot features a massive variety of live entertainment, where you can watch musicals, comedy, drama and even West End productions on tour.

Cheltenham Racecourse. This world-famous venue is home to plenty of racing during the October to April season. Why not time your visit to coincide with the popular National Hunt Festival in March, or visit the Hall of Fame that relays the history of steeple chasing?

Cotswolds Coach Tours. Take the opportunity and join a scenic coach tour in which you’ll join a guide and take in some of the most beautiful views of the English Cotswolds.

Cotswold Farm Park. See history brought to life with numerous animal demonstrations and displays, an ideal place to visit for all the family. There are many rare breeds of farmyard animal from sheep to cattle, waterfowl to horses.

Food & Drink

Cheltenham is home to many different types of restaurant, with the focus on quality. Of course, if you’re after something fast and easy, you’ll find plenty of different cafés and takeaways serving up what you’re looking for, but Cheltenham particularly prides itself on being the home of many stylish eateries. Here are some of the best you can sample:
The Scena Bistro. Enjoy one of the finest dining experiences in Cheltenham at this French restaurant, which has a relaxed and welcoming style.
Off the Square Restaurant. Located in Cheltenham’s fashionable Montpellier district, this friendly eatery serves a variety of dishes on the menu, including plenty of old favourites. Eat in style.
Monty’s Seafood Restaurant. Visit and enjoy a flexible menu that offers a range of different seafood. Alternatively, keep it simple and enjoy the stylish accompaniment of oysters with champagne.
The Storyteller Restaurant. Located in the heart of Cheltenham, this Californian restaurant is both welcoming and atmospheric, boasting the famous Mississippi Seafood Platter and the taste bud-teasing Duck from Heaven.
Epicurian. This is one of Cheltenham’s top restaurants, featuring a bistro and wine bar.

Hotels Accommodations

There are literally hundreds of places to stay during your visit to Cheltenham, whether you’re looking for a hotel, guesthouse, bed and breakfast or self-catering establishment. Alternatively, other types of accommodation include camping and caravan sites and hostels. Many of the hotels offer special offers and it’s always advisable to search around to find the best deals. Elizabethan manors and country mansions serve as the setting for some of the top hotels in the district. Kings Arms Hotel Cheltenham Park Hotel George Cheltenham Ltd Beaumont House Macdonald Queen's Hotel Cotswold Grange Hotel Hotel On The Park North Hall Hotel The Prestbury House Hotel Oaks Restaurant Clarence Court Hotel The Quality Hotel Cheltenham Cleeve Hill Hotel Thistle Cheltenham The CheltenhamTownhouse Hotel Lords of the Manor Rising Sun Hotel White Hart Inn De La Bere Hotel Oaklands Bed and Breakfast Entertainment
The night life in Cheltenham is completely entertaining with a host of nightclubs and exciting pubs and bars. You’ll find Cheltenham to be a welcoming and friendly city where you’ll always feel safe. If you’re looking for a nightclub, Subtone and Enigma are two of the most popular, with attractive line-ups of events going on all the time; alternatively, if you’re a fan of Hollywood then you’ll discover that the Odeon cinema shows all the latest blockbusters as well as popular British films.

Cheltenham is sometimes called a city within a park, and when you visit, you’ll see why. The architecture of the city itself is beautiful enough, with Regency-period buildings (over two thousand of them listed!) and attractive designs, but the picturesque parks are what make Cheltenham really special. There are lots of tree-lined avenues, plenty of floral displays and many more examples of nature in bloom that give Cheltenham a truly attractive appearance. Combine this with the wealth of activities and places to see, and it’s hard to deny that Cheltenham is one city you really must visit.

This Article may be freely copied as long as it is not modified and this resource box accompanies the article, together with working hyperlinks.


