Title: 
China Travel

Word Count:
472

Summary:
China, with an area of 9.6 million sq km, is the third largest country in the world, next only to Russia and Canada.


Keywords:
china travel, china tour, yangtze river cruise


Article Body:
China, with an area of 9.6 million sq km, is the third largest country in the world, next only to Russia and Canada. Located in eastern Asia, China is bordered by Russia and Mongolia to the north; Russia and North Korea to the east; Russia and Afghanistan to the west; and India, Pakistan, Nepal, Burma, Bhutan, Vietnam, and Laos to the south. The capital of China is Beijing. Shanghai is the largest city.   

Traveling to China is a life time experience and an ideal way to understand the land of cultural and geographic schisms. China offers immense opportunities for its visitors to make their travel quite interesting. Whether you are interested in Chinese culture, Chinese history, or simply to enjoy Chinese scenery, a trip through the Chinese mainland has it all.  

If you don’t have a couple of years for exploring the Chinese mainland, it is a good idea to follow a loose itinerary. Some good suggestions along these lines include a trip from the Chinese capital to Tibet through Xi'an's terracotta warriors, following the traditional Silk route, sailing down the Yangtze River (which provides the most rarest and beautiful views of Mother Nature), or traveling around the Dr Seuss landscape of Guangxi Province.   

Beijing has been crowned as the country’s capital for approximately 500 years. The city boasts some of the beautiful sights such as the off-limits palace of Ming and Qing emperors, the Forbidden City, their eunuch servants, princesses and harems. The Summer Palace, one of the major attractions, was constructed in the late Qing period. China’s renowned imperial legacy – the Great Wall – starts from Beijing. The wall can be viewed from numerous places, however, majority of the visitors approach it from Beijing.  

The sacred mountains of China have always been major pilgrimage destinations for many centuries and all these mountains feature well marked trails to the summits. There are also stairways carved into rock faces, and sights en-route includes inscriptions and poems and several temples. The sunrise at the summit is inevitably one of the most noted attractions. Huangshan, Emeishan, and Taishan are the most popular mountains majority of the foreign tourists never miss in their China travel.   

China also prides for being home to the largest Buddha statue in the world. The Grand Buddha at Leshan in Sichuan Province is 71 m high and carved into a cliff face which overlooks the meeting of the Dadu and Min rivers.  

China’s well known collection of European architecture is lined up facing the sea on the Bund in Shanghai. Xiamen in Fujian Province features outstanding collections of colonial architecture, on Gulangyr Island.   

Tourist attractions in China are too much information to cover. Hence it is better to contact a tourist operator first and get an idea about the possibility and cost of different tour programs before embarking on one.


