Title: 
Colorado Springs, a Truly Wonderful Travel Destination

Word Count:
792

Summary:
The Colorado Rockies are my absolute favorite vacation destination.  Read why the Colorado Springs area in particular is a favorite vacation area of mine and what there is to do and see there.


Keywords:
colorado,springs,royal gorge,rafting,pikes peak,north pole,manitou,cheyenne zoo,cave of the winds,garden of the gods,travel,vacation,trip


Article Body:
Well I decided to write about the great state of Colorado and how much fun vacationing is there.  But there are so many great places to go in Colorado it was tough to narrow down one area to visit.  But eventually I decided on the Colorado Springs area. 

Colorado Springs and it's surrounding area has so much to offer and of course the beauty of the mountains makes you want to visit again and again.  There is something about just being in the mountains that is relaxing and peaceful.  I have spent many vacations in Colorado and never get tired of the beauty of the mountains, I even had the opportunity to live there for a short period of time and never grew tired of the scenery. Each time I go to the Rockies there is always something new to see or do it seems like.

I have been to Colorado Springs many times and for any of you readers that may be interested in going there I thought I would tell you a little about what the area has to offer.

There is of course Royal Gorge, the views down are breathtaking and awe inspiring.  You can walk or drive across the bridge, take a tram down to the river, and even tour the area by rail.  A definite must see if you are in the area.

After you have looked down you will want to experience Pikes Peak Highway, it is truly one of the most beautiful areas of the Rockies.  You may see dear, marmots, elk, big horn sheep, and of course there is always the chipmunks.  Be sure to take items to snack on and maybe a picnic lunch because you are sure to stay longer than you thought.  Have some quarters available for when you get to the top for their binoculars or better yet bring your own to use and enjoy all through your trip. You can even take the cog railway to the top if you prefer that over the drive.

If you are into or want to experience some rafting Echo Canyon is the place to go.  If you are into the milder family version they have that available and for the thrill seekers raft the Royal Gorge.

Manitou Springs is noted for their carbonated mineral drinking springs.  You will also find wonderful shopping in many specialty shops and boutiques. A wonderful place to go for window shoppers and serious shoppers alike.  For you chocolate lovers the fudge is out of this world.

If you enjoy waterfalls then Seven Falls should be on your itinerary.  You can climb quite high to see the falls, or take the mountain elevator if that is more to your tastes.  You may even be able to feed peanuts to the chipmunks which is a lot of fun for old and young alike.  Make sure you allow yourself enough time to really enjoy the area and you may want to consider staying there through sunset and enjoying all the colorful lights.  The falls are gorgeous will the lights in the evening.

You can't forget the North Pole and Santa's Workshop if you have young ones.  You will find Santa, a petting zoo, amusement rides, magic shows, and a ton of fun things there.  I have been there many times and it is still a magical place that is fun for the whole family.

There is also the Cheyenne Mountain Zoo which is awesome.  Be sure and bring your walking shoes as the zoo is located in the mountains so there will be some hills to climb, but the walking will be worth it.

Other places you may want to visit would be the Manitou Cliff Dwellings, if you go in the summer you may be able to watch some Pueblo Indian dances live.  For some family fun be sure and visit Buckskin Joe Frontier Town and Railway.  You can ride a train and see some spectacular scenery and enjoy all the wild west action that it has to offer.

There is of course the Garden of the Gods, where you can find wonderful art exhibits representing the culture and history of the area.  And of course there is Cave of the Winds.  There are many different tours available and all are worth the time.  If you time it right when you go you will be able to see a wonderful laxer show in the evening as well.  It is quite dramatic and worth staying up for.

Well these are just a few of my favorite places to go in the Colorado Springs area,  I am sure I have forgotten some but this will give you a start on what you want to do and see when you get there.


