Title: 
Congratulations Valencia Spain

Word Count:
686

Summary:
For many years, Valencia Spain has been struggling to be recognized as the third most important city after Madrid, its capital and Barcelona. It has long been notorious for its Valencia Fallas Festival but now, after having been chosen for the Americas Cup host city and having opened its latest building in the impressive ‘City of the Arts and Sciences’, Valencia is becoming well-known world-wide.
 
Sail along with Valencia Spain
 
On November 26th, 2003, Valencia was proc...


Keywords:
valencia,spain,travel,holiday,europe,vacation,airport,car hire,hotel,flight,


Article Body:
For many years, Valencia Spain has been struggling to be recognized as the third most important city after Madrid, its capital and Barcelona. It has long been notorious for its Valencia Fallas Festival but now, after having been chosen for the Americas Cup host city and having opened its latest building in the impressive ‘City of the Arts and Sciences’, Valencia is becoming well-known world-wide.
 
Sail along with Valencia Spain
 
On November 26th, 2003, Valencia was proclaimed the official welcoming city for the upcoming Americas Cup 2007. The Swiss team ‘ Alinghi’, the winner of the America’s Cup 2003, had the chance to choose the headquarters for the following competition because Switzerland was obviously at a loss without a sea or ocean and Valencia among others was a good option. The main priority was that the host city had to have excellent weather conditions not forgetting all the other services that would go along with size event. The weather in Valencia is quite warm in summer with mild winters and a nice long coast line with great sports ports in many of the neighbouring cities like Denia, Javea and Alicante. So, on January 23rd, 2003 the ACM ( America’s Cup Management ), the only organization responsible for this event, published its document ‘Terms of Challenge’ and on January 27th, 2003 it opened its door for inscription.

For the first time in 152 years, this encounter will be one lasting four years with various races, each one being called An Act, leading up to the climax race of Louis Vuitton Cup in 2007. The points that each team get in Act 1 being celebrated in Marseilles will count towards the lining up for the main race. This is the first time that these teams are going to use this format in this particular event. There is going to be an interesting mixture of fleet racing ( group of sailboats) and match-race ( one on one) to produce an exciting visual show, guaranteeing good entertainment.
 
Marseilles to Start Valencia to Continue
 
On September 5th, 2004, Act One of the America’s Cup started, exactly from pier J4, where large TV screens were set up so that the interested public could actively participate in this fantastic happening. The reason why Marseille was chosen was because it had a lot of places from where the race could be watched first hand. The new concept that the organizers want to push is the idea of getting the public as close to the competitors as possible so that every feels the warmth and emotion. In Act One there were only five teams signed up: The defender ‘Alinghi’, and the challengers BMW Oracle Racing, Le Defi from France, K-Challenge and the South African Shosoloza. Act Two and Three were held ‘at home’ in Valencia which let the teams get familiar with their new landscape and weather conditions such as the wind and waters of the Valencian coast. After Act Three was finalized in October, there was a champion for 2004 with the accumulation of the points from the three acts.

When the inscription date expired on April 29th, 2005 there were a total of eleven challenging teams signed up; BMW Oracle from U.S.A., +39 Challenge, Mascalzone Latino Capitalia Team and Luna Rossa all from Italy, Team Shosholoza from South Africa, Emirates Team from New Zealand, K-Challenge from France, Victory Challenge from Sweden, United Internet Team Germany from Germany, China Team from China and last but not least the Desafio Espanol from Spain. Now, after Nine Louis Vuitton Acts, it is time to slow the engines a little and get some strength back. We will see the beginning of three new Acts in May 2006 ( http://www.valencia-information.com/spain/americas-cup.html ).
 
Valencia, the Most Lively City
 
Thanks to all its innovative tourist attractions, and with the up coming Americas Cup, Valencia airport is busier than ever with new flight expansion plans for easier travel to and from this bubbling city. Some of the best hotels like the Silken Puerta Valencia, built right near the port area or the Posadas de Espana in the industrial and Fairgrounds area will make your stay quite pleasurable when in Valencia Spain.


