Title: 
Croatia – The Country Of A Thousand Islands

Word Count:
363

Summary:
Situated on the Adriatic coast is a small and beautiful country called Croatia. Famous for its sprawling Yacht industry, Croatia is growing rapidly as a tourist destination.


Keywords:
croatia travel, travel, vacations, croatia holiday, croatia vacation, croatia hotels, croatia, travel guide, travel advice, travel tips


Article Body:
Situated on the Adriatic coast is a small and beautiful country called Croatia. Famous for its sprawling Yacht industry, the place is growing as a tourist destination. Croatia has everything on offer for the average tourist. Nature lover, adventure seeker, History enthusiast or shopping lover, Croatia will definitely satisfy them with its splendor. Nature lovers have everything to choose from including Scuba diving, mountain biking, hiking and much more. The country also has a unique history. It was earlier a part of Yugoslavia. It also has a mixture of cuisines and many internationally recognized hotels.

Nature’s Bounty
It has miles of beautiful unexplored coastline. White sands, clear blue waters and coral reefs, the coasts of Croatia have it all. Croatia also has magnificent mountains and clean rivers. Tourists usually come to Croatia for its beaches and sand, but nature lovers can never miss the 8 national parks over here. The parks are overflowing with Flora and Fauna and cascading waterfalls. The wildlife here is varied from the bear, wild sheep to the Lynx. Most of the land over here is protected. There are some 44 types of herbal species, which are protected, and 381 species of wildlife. 

Zagreb – The Capital
There are many unexplored caves, mountains etc in the forests. If that was nature, the shopping and nightlife in Croatia is sprawling as well. Head off straight to Zagreb, the capital of Croatia and explore the museums that the place has. Zagreb is also called the city of museums, as there are more museums per square foot in this place than any other place in the world. This place is not so popular with tourists and hence you can enjoy a silent evening sitting in one of the cafes and simply watch the world go by. 

Trogir
Trogir is another magnificent city that Croatia has to offer. This is one of the best places to stop on the Dalmatian coast.  St.Lawrence church is one of the grandest structures in Trogir. Besides this, Croatia also has over 20 naturist resorts, nudist beaches and a lot more.

Keep your passports and other documents in order while entering Croatia to ensure a safe and pleasurable trip without hassle.


