Title: 
Cyprus for Holidays and an Idyllic Lifestyle

Word Count:
459

Summary:
Why the stunning Mediterranean island of Cyprus is such a popular choice for holiday makers and those seeking an escape from the rat race and a brand new life in the sun.


Keywords:
holiday,Cyprus,Mediterranean,sun,sunshine,sea,lifestyle,weather,climate,vacation


Article Body:
The beautiful island of Cyprus lies in the Mediterranean Sea, it basks in up to 300 days of sunshine a year making it an island for all seasons.  

Every year Aphrodite’s island effortlessly attracts holiday makers and expatriates in their droves; they come in search of the stunning scenery, the incredible history, the fantastic weather, the warm and welcoming people and the idyllic Cypriot lifestyle.

If you’re looking for your next holiday hotspot or a perfect place to live in the sun here are five top reasons to consider Cyprus.

1)	Cyprus has the perfect climate: in the short autumn and winter months the temperature never drops so low that the delicate fruit trees fail to deliver their burgeoning crop and in the summer the temperature never soars so high that the beautiful jasmine and bougainvillea blossoms wilt.  

Because the weather in Cyprus is considered to be so healthy it has long been an island favoured by all the family, it’s not too hot for those looking for an idyllic retirement destination and it’s not too cold or wet for those looking to escape to the sun.

2)	With cheap airlines now servicing the airports across Cyprus, Greece and Turkey the island is easily and cheaply accessible from mainland Europe and there are some direct and many connecting flights to North America, Australasia and the Middle East which makes it an easy destination to reach.

3)	Cyprus has been inhabited for at least the last 9,000 years and as a result it is steeped in history, rich in culture and charm and boasts an abundance of interesting historical sites, castles, fortresses and ruins.

There is so much to do and see in Cyprus that holiday makers return frequently and many decide to settle permanently on this amazing island.

4)	Aphrodite’s island is also rich in flora and fauna; it has many rare species of orchid for example as well as being home to rare birds of prey, owls, flamingos and butterflies.  In the spring and autumn walking tours are very popular with those wanting to experience Cyprus up close and personal and the Troodos and Kyrenia mountain ranges both have many paths to explore and views to experience.

5)	The Cypriot lifestyle is laid back, warm, friendly and hospitable.  The Cypriot people enjoy a leisurely pace of life that we can all envy…coming to Cyprus on holiday or to live people find they quickly adapt to long lunches and evenings spent out under the stars enjoying a meze of local dishes, some fine Cypriot wine and the company of great friends.

As a destination for your next holiday or a country to consider living in for those seeking a more laid back and idyllic lifestyle, Cyprus truly has it all!


