Title: 
Day Pampering In Northern California

Word Count:
341

Summary:
Taking a little time out for a day of pampering is a California tradition. Finding a quality day retreat in Northern California should be no problem as you can see below.


Keywords:
retreat, pampering, california, ojai, newark, east bay, oaks, stress, rejuvenation, relaxation, massage


Article Body:
Taking a little time out for a day of pampering is a California tradition. Finding a quality day retreat in Northern California should be no problem as you can see below. 

Day Pampering In Northern California

If you're stressed out and in need of some relaxation and therapeutic care, chances are you're in need of a bit of pampering. Living in California can be a stressful situation, and there are times that you need nothing more than a massage or maybe a facial to combat those working blues. Luckily, there is most likely a day retreat in northern California to meet your needs.

The Oaks at Ojai destination health retreat, located in Ojai, California, is only twenty minutes away from downtown Ventura. This retreat offers many different treatments, including the yummy sounding Ojai Olive Oil Body Souffle. Along with the usual massages, wraps and facials, packages are also offered. These include the Head to Toe package and the Mind, Body package, both of which offer tons of relaxation and wellness treatments. Wellness and fitness consultations are also offered here, along with different services, such as makeup consultations. You can stay at this retreat or just use it as a day of bliss. 

Another retreat in northern California is the California Skin Care and Day Spa in Newark, California. Located in the East Bay area, this day retreat offers massages, facials, and body wraps, but it also offers some more unique services. These include oxygen therapy, permanent make-up (tattoo) and eyelash extensions, to name a few. They also offer many spa packages, which include the Day in Paradise and Lavish in Romance (for couples) - these packages are even available as Internet specials! 

Regardless of the retreat you choose, be sure to book any special treatments or packages in advance - often they request up to four weeks advance notice for certain services. Also be sure to confirm when your reservation is for the services. Just like any service, they may charge a fee if you don't show up at your scheduled appointment time.


