Title: 
Detroit Michigan

Word Count:
348

Summary:
Once just a part of  a prime trading route from the Great Lakes to other popular posts, Detroit, Michigan is now a bustling city with hundreds of thousands of occupants and activities and attractions galore.


Keywords:
detroit, michigan, travel


Article Body:
Once just a part of  a prime trading route from the Great Lakes to other popular posts, Detroit, Michigan is now a bustling city with hundreds of thousands of occupants and activities and attractions galore. With so many attractions to be found in the Detroit area, it is no wonder that many people choose Detroit as their vacation getaway destination. 

Detroit, or the area known as le Detroit, first gained attention from the French who were establishing forts at strategic locations to keep the British from moving West. Seeing that the surrounding Great Lakes and rivers provided easy travel from many major points, the French decided that this was a prime location for a French Settlement. The first settlement at this location, established in 1701, was called Fort Ponchartrain and was home to 100 souls. Today this great city is most popular not for the French fort that was established there but for the production of motor vehicles. There are more than 950,000 in this settlement which is now fondly referred to as The Motor City and a host of things to see and do. Here are just a few:

1. Detroit Institute of Arts. The Detroit Institute of Arts is believed to be home to one of the best art collections to be found in the United States. Here you can find everything from modern art to mummies and African masks. With more than 65,000 pieces, the Detroit Institute of Arts is a must see on your Detroit vacation getaway.

2. Motown Historical Museum. This museum features photos, costumes, artwork, music and other Motown memorabilia all housed in the original house where Berry Gordy lived and where many of the Motown hits were recorded. 

3. Detroit Historical Museum. This museum is home to The Motor City Exhibition. Here visitors can learn the whole story associated with the city of Detroit and see, step by step, how a Cadillac is assembled. 

As you can see from just these few examples, there is a lot waiting for you in the fascinating city of Detroit, Michigan. Why not make your next vacation getaway destination The Motor City?


