Title: 
Discover Port Canaveral in Cape Canaveral Florida

Word Count:
540

Summary:
Port Canaveral, which not too long ago was a small cargo port is now, in addition to being a major international cargo hub, one of the, if not the, busiest cruise ports in the Western Hemisphere. It is also a fun filled recreational area.


Keywords:
port canaveral,cape canaveral,kennedy space center,florida,fl,travel,destinations,vacations,leisure,tourism


Article Body:
Across the Banana River from the Kennedy Space Center on Merritt Island and just north of Cocoa Beach is the city of Cape Canaveral, Florida. In the city of Cape Canaveral you will find, on a protected channel just off the Atlantic Ocean, Port Canaveral.

Port Canaveral, which not too long ago was a small cargo port is now, in addition to being a major international cargo hub, one of the, if not the, busiest cruise ports in the Western Hemisphere. It is also a fun filled recreational area. 

Board a cruise ship for a 2, 3, 4, 5 or 7 day cruise to the Keys, the Bahamas or the Caribbean, on the 855' Carnival Fantasy, the 952' Carnival Glory, the 964' Disney Magic, the 964' Disney Wonder, the 880' Royal Caribbean International Sovereign of the Seas, the 1020' Royal Caribbean International Mariner of the Seas, the 916' Royal Caribbean International Grandeur of the Seas or one of the other cruise ships that are in port. Take a 2 day gaming cruise on the Sterling Casino Lines Ambassador II with it's 26,000 square feet of casino space, or take an afternoon, evening or full day gaming cruise on the smaller SunCruz Casinos' SUNCRUZ XII. 

Go fishing off the 1200' Malcolm E. McLouth fishing pier, launch your own boat from the public boat launching ramps at Port's End Park and Freddie Patrick Park or take a half, full day or night fishing excursion charter, on the Atlantic Ocean or the Indian River Lagoon, from one of the three marinas at the Port. 

Go camping at the 35 acre Jetty Park with it's 150 lighted camp sites, ranging from tents to full hookup for RVs, it's four and one-half-acre family beach with designated areas for water-related activities, such as swimming and surfing, covered pavilions and picnic tables, restrooms with showers, refreshment stand, fishing pier and fish cleaning tables. Call (321) 783-7111 for reservations and rules. 

Check out the Cove with it's more than a dozen dining establishments, most serving fresh seafood fresh from the boats. There are also numerous shops and boutiques. 

Strech out on the clean well tended sandy beach and watch the fishing boats and cruise ships go by. The sky is blue and the water is clear. Watch a rocket launch from the nearby Cape Kennedy Space Center. 

Stay at one of the nearby resort hotels in Cape Canaveral, Cocoa Beach, Melbourne, Merritt Island and Palm Bay. Take a 45 minute drive to Orlando and visit Disney World or one of the other theme parks. Visit nearby Cape Kennedy and tour NASA's launch headquarters, see the towering launch pads, huge rockets, history-making technology, explore the Apollo/Saturn V Center and the Vehicle Assembly Building, walk through a full-size Space Shuttle mock-up, see IMAX space films on gigantic five-story screens, and see an actual Gemini program capsule on display in Early Space Exploration. Visit one of the many other area attractions. 

There is plenty for the whole family to see and do, in and around Port Canaveral. 

For more information about the city of Cape Canaveral see <a href="http://capecanaveralfl.usacitydirectories.com" target=noframes">http://capecanaveralfl.usacitydirectories.com</a>, a directory of links to city of Cape Canaveral guides and directories listing hotels, restaurants, attorneys, real estate brokers, information, resources, services, things to do, places to go and more.


