Title: 
Discover The Costa Blanca In Spain

Word Count:
609

Summary:
The city of Torrevieja in Spain is located about half way between Alicante and Cartagena. It belongs to the in the Providence of Alicante. The name Torrevieja means old town in English. It offers plenty to do for everyone, singles, couples and families with small children.

The weather in Torrevieja is hot in the summer and mild in the winter. The beautiful summer weather makes this area one of the most popular summer vacation spots in the Costa Blanca area. The city is a p...


Keywords:
torrevieja,spain,costa blanca,


Article Body:
The city of Torrevieja in Spain is located about half way between Alicante and Cartagena. It belongs to the in the Providence of Alicante. The name Torrevieja means old town in English. It offers plenty to do for everyone, singles, couples and families with small children.

The weather in Torrevieja is hot in the summer and mild in the winter. The beautiful summer weather makes this area one of the most popular summer vacation spots in the Costa Blanca area. The city is a popular destination for British, German and Scandinavian tourists as well as visitors from other areas of Spain.

Travelling to the spanish Costa Blanca

Alicante airport is the closest for travelling to Torrevieja. The airport has several large and small carriers that offer a variety of flight options, both within Spain and internationally. Prices for tickets vary according to the season. A few discount airlines fly into this airport, offering great deals on flights.

Once you arrive at the airport, you have several options for travelling to the city. Buses run on fairly regular schedules. Taxis are available to the city. If you prefer not to use public transportation or want the freedom to travel throughout the area, you may want to consider a car rental. Car hire companies are plentiful and most will pick you up at the airport.

Things to do around the area

This area of Spain is known for salt production. There are two huge salt lakes around Torrevieja. These lakes produce about a half a million tons of salt per year. Salt, fishing and tourism are the major industries in the area. The Museum of Sea and Salt offers a look at the history of the major industries in the area.

The natural salt production in the area has other benefits for visitors. The Natural Park of the Lagoons of the Mata offers salt baths. These are relaxing and have health benefits as well. The baths are great for illnesses, such as arthritis and various skin conditions. The park also has plentiful fauna and a variety of exotic birds.

Torrevieja has one of the largest open air markets in Spain. This market is located near the bus station. It offers fresh fruits and vegetables every Friday. There is also a craft market, which may be of interest. The craft market is located close to the harbour. Vendors offer jewellery, carvings and leather goods.

Golf enthusiasts will enjoy playing in Torrevieja. There are many golf courses in the area, such as the Torrevieja Golf Club. Green fees range from thirty five to eighty Euros. The price you will pay depends upon the course you play and the time of year.

Music lovers will find plenty to enjoy in the city. An international music festival is held in the city every year, in late July to early August. The Habanera Festival features choral groups from all over. Music is common in clubs, bars and restaurants.

There are many choices for fun, if you are travelling with children. The Aquopolis Water Park offers rapids, a wave pool, slides, a swimming pool and baby pool for fun in the water. There are water activities for all ages, from infants through adults. The park also has mini golf and restaurants. You can enjoy lunch in the restaurant or bring along a picnic lunch.

Indiana Bills is a soft play park. This park is geared for children under the age of twelve. This is an indoor, air conditioned play area. The kids will have fun climbing, jumping, sliding and crawling. Since it is located indoors, this park is a good choice in bad weather or any season.


