Title: 
Discover The Boca Raton Resort And Club

Word Count:
725

Summary:
Situated in the city of Boca Raton, Florida, just 50 miles north of Miami and 26 miles south of Palm Beach, you will find the beautiful luxury resort hotel, The Boca Raton Resort And Club.


Keywords:
boca raton resort and club,hotels,travel,vacations,destinations,leisure,tourism,boca raton,florida,fl


Article Body:
Situated in the city of Boca Raton, Florida, just 50 miles north of Miami and 26 miles south of Palm Beach, you will find the beautiful luxury resort hotel, The Boca Raton Resort And Club. This hotel sits on 356 acres of beautifully tended well manicured grounds with gorgous gardens, one half mile of private beach, thirty tennis courts, a full service marina, three fitness centers, two championship 18-hole golf courses and much, much more. 

The famous Boca Raton Resort And Club, has five distinct styles of deluxe guestrooms and suites:

1. The Cloister which is the most classic of the Resort's five accommodation choices. Set within an intricate pattern of tropical gardens, tiled courtyards and sparkling fountains that seem suspended in another era.

2. The Tower which is a dramatic contrast, being a sleek and modern high-rise soaring 27 stories above the Atlantic Ocean, the Intracoastal Waterway and the Florida Gold Coast. The decor is contemporary, yet comfortably inviting and the views from the guest rooms and deluxe corner suites are truly inspiring.

3. The Boca Beach Club presents the irresistible lure of staying and playing on the Atlantic seashore. Lanais and guest rooms provide views that beckon guests to pursue their favorite water sports by simply stepping out the door. Recreation amenities include a half-mile of private ocean beach, two pools, private cabanas, a whirlpool, and a variety of watersports.

4. The Yacht Club, which is Reminiscent of a grand Venetian palace, commands the Resort's waterfront, with 112 of the country's most luxurious guestrooms and suites, the Yacht Club features custom-designed appointments and luxuries as well as private balconies with sweeping views of the Resort's marina, the Atlantic Ocean and the Intracoastal Waterway.

5. The Boca Bungalows, casual and quiet, are available with one-and two-bedrooms, have an easygoing charm all their own. Many are conveniently equipped with kitchens for informal entertaining. They provide an opportunity for golfers to stay near the beauty of the rolling fairways and manicured greens.

The Boca Raton Resort & Club offers its guests an unmatched variety of sports and leisure activities. Boca Raton Resort & Club offers two championship 18-hole golf courses with fully-stocked pro shops and complete practice facilities. The Resort Course which is located directly on the resort grounds is a 6,253 yard, par 71 course highlighted with a variety of elevation changes and 12 surface acres of water including a signature water feature designed by Hugh Hughes. The Country Club Course is located at the Boca Country Club, just minutes from the Resort and is a 6,585 yard, par 72 course with an 18th hole island green. 

The full-service marina features 30 slips and can accommodate vessels up to 170 feet and longer. The Resort also offer one of the widest varieties of water sport facilities in the United States. From fishing and sailing charters to cigarette boat rides and yacht rentals, the Resort delivers an ocean of good times. 

The new tennis facilities include a tennis clubhouse with viewing deck and elaborate pro shop, as well as 18 Har-tru clay courts. These courts utilize the latest in HydroGrid technology to maintain a consistent level of moisture on the courts' surface. Tennis Magazine listed the Resorts in it's "The 50 Greatest Tennis Resorts in the United States", list. 

There are 19 dining and entertainment venues housed in a variety of unique locations, these many eateries share several common themes - fantastic food, impeccable service and total exclusivity. Because every one of these establishments is open only to guests and members, the Resort can consistently provide access to great tables and personalized service. 

Check out the Spa Palazzo, a perfect sanctuary of peace and tranquility, in a private, beautiful and unique environment. According to the Resort, "At Spa Palazzo your every desire will be met, and more importantly, your need to invigorate the body and restore the spirit will be fulfilled.". 

Boca Raton Resort And Club isn't cheap, but it is definitely worth the price and more. Relax, be pampered and enjoy the beauty of the Resort and of the city. When you come home after your vacation you'll feel rested and wonderful.

For more information about the city of Boca Raton, Florida see: <a href="http://bocaratonfl.usacitydirectories.com" target=noframes">http://bocaratonfl.usacitydirectories.com</a>, a directory of links to the city of Boca Raton, Florida guides and directories listing hotels, restaurants, attorneys, real estate brokers, information, resources, services, things to do, places to go and more.


