Title: 
Discover The Beauty Of Tuscany Italy

Word Count:
531

Summary:
Every time I write about Tuscany Italy, my heart and my whole body for that matter experiences an intense feeling of calmness. I know exactly that this feeling comes from the relaxed atmosphere that this part of Italy near Florence gives off. I have found a perfect balance of enjoying the fascinating city of Florence and its cultural activities at the same time I refurbish energy by either doing a farm holiday or staying in a luxury villa in the countryside of Tuscany.
 
Wa...


Keywords:
tuscany,italy,tuscan,travel,europe,holiday,vacation,


Article Body:
Every time I write about Tuscany Italy, my heart and my whole body for that matter experiences an intense feeling of calmness. I know exactly that this feeling comes from the relaxed atmosphere that this part of Italy near Florence gives off. I have found a perfect balance of enjoying the fascinating city of Florence and its cultural activities at the same time I refurbish energy by either doing a farm holiday or staying in a luxury villa in the countryside of Tuscany.
 
Wallow in Luxury in Tuscany Italy
 
The words ‘luxury’ and ‘farm’ might scare you away, firstly because everyone associates luxury with expensive and farm with very little comfort. Let me tell you of some fantastic places where I have been and you will see how this is much more gratifying than staying at a hotel in the city centre. 

The Fattoria il Lago farmhouse is found about 40 kilometres north-east of Florence, just outside the small town of Dicomano, hidden away in the olive tree covered Tuscan hillsides. The extensive property houses three areas which are referred to as villages, each having apartment accommodations and an entirely different landscape to admire. The main lodging building is called La Villa and has a pleasurable view of the Dicomano Valley. Just a short walk away you find Lago village with its corresponding pool accompanied by a beautiful garden. The third area is the most quaint sleeping quarters called Macerato, embedded among all the hues of green possible. This kind of vacation rental is as comfortable and reposeful as the luxury villas, only that you are sharing a common ground with other tourists. When you get your Tuscany car rental, you should ask for a good map and maybe even ask them if they can give more explicit directions towards Dicomano being as the farmhouse is found off other country roads. Usually any holiday home in Tuscany offers the option of giving full directions when booking and also being picked up at nearby train or bus stations. You just have to let them know beforehand.

The 11th c. medieval monastery of San Lorenzo a Linari in Sovicille, south of Siena is one of those vacation rental places in Tuscany where you can have it all and still have your own breathing space, having your freedom from stress. This magnificent lodging is individual apartments tempting you with Tuscany tours such as viewing the hillside and mountains seated in a four-wheel drive vehicle, horse-back riding or an aerial view from a hot-air balloon. And if you do not want to miss out on the lovely beaches, there are excursions to the Mediterranean seashore, too.

Staying in Tuscany in the Chiantii area in the luxury villa estate called Villa de Dievole near the old town of Vagliali. As all villas used to belong to the Italian noble class, the exclusiveness and privacy is incomparable. The decoration in many has been respected in the restoration process, therefore you are living among many centuries of history. This 16th century villa has rooms and suites with a private guesthouse, too.

Without overtaxing one’s strength, your Tuscany Italy holiday tours can be choked full of emotions and peacefulness.


