Title: 
Discover The Rose Bowl Flea Market In Pasadena California

Word Count:
641

Summary:
This flea market is worth the price of admission. There are bargins galore and the people watching entertainment factor alone is worth the price. You will see people from all walks of life, dressed in every imaginable way, speaking numerous languages all scurrying from vendor to vendor searching for the best bargins.


Keywords:
rose bowl,flea market,swap meet,pasadena,california,ca,shopping,travel


Article Body:
The Rose Bowl Flea Market And Swap Meet, at 1001 Rose Bowl Drive, Pasadena Ca. 91103, is probably the largest and most famous swap meet held in California. On the second Sunday of each month, rain or shine, over 1,800 vendors from all over the country set up their booths and spaces in order to display and sell merchandise, including but not limited to accessories, antiques, clothing, collectibles, discontinued merchandise, dolls, handmade crafts, home furnishings (new and used), paintings and other fine art items, pins and buttons (sports, olympics, election, etc.), plants, specialty foods, used books, watches, etc..<br><br>
Parking is plentiful and free and admission prices are as follows: "Rose Bowl Flea Market and Market Place regular admission starts at 9am for the general public at $7.00 per person, children under 12 are admitted free with an adult. We also have an express admission from 8:00am - 9:00am at $10.00 per person, an early admission from 7:00am - 8:00am at $15.00 per person, and a special preview VIP admission from 5:00am - 7:00am at $20.00 per person. Discount tickets for early admissions are available at many local antique stores. Group rates are available. The box office is open until 3pm after which time sellers begin packing and leaving. The public may shop for those last minute bargains until 4:30pm."<br><br>
This flea market is worth the price of admission. There are bargins galore and the people watching entertainment factor alone is worth the price. You will see people from all walks of life, dressed in every imaginable way, speaking numerous languages all scurrying from vendor to vendor searching for the best bargins. The vendors are all very friendly and happy to talk about their wares. Many of them are real characters and a lot of fun to deal with.<br><br>
Note: This is not the same as going to a garage sale or some of your local swap meets. The vendors pay good money for a permit to sell here. You are not going to find a lot of cheap unwanted junk or that $50,000.00 painting being sold for $1.00. These vendors are professionals, they know their merchandise and they know what they are doing. Their overhead is much lower than if they were selling out of a retail store or mall and the are usually not paying employees so they can sell for less. You will find very good bargins, especially if you are willing to negotiate a little (It's not considered bad manners to negotiate at a flea market. In fact, many of the vendors enjoy the negotiating more than they enjoy the selling.), just do not expect to leave with a lot of junk or with the find of a lifetime.<br><br>
The best thing about the Rose Bowl Flea Market is the hugh variety of items that can be found, there is something for almost everyone. Very few people leave empty handed and many people leave with their cars, SUVs or trucks filled with items, many of which they would not have been able to find anywhere else.<br><br>
Last but not least, if you have children, do not be afraid to bring them with you. There is plenty for them to see and do and there are plenty of toys, food and other items for sale that will attract and hold their intrest. Although the place is always crowded the security is excellent, helpful and friendly making this a safe place for you and your children.

<br><br>
For more information about the city of Pasadena, California see <a href="http://pasadena.usacitydirectories.com" target=noframes">http://pasadena.usacitydirectories.com</a>, a directory of links to city of Pasadena, California guides and directories listing hotels, restaurants, churches, physicians, attorneys, information, resources, services, things to do, places to go, art galleries, service organizations, auto dealers, nursing homes, convalescent hospitals, antique dealers and more.


