Title: 
Discover The Raymond Restaurant In Pasadena California

Word Count:
512

Summary:
The old saying, "You can't judge a book by it's cover", is especially true in the case of The Raymond. Inside that weathered cottage is one of the best fine dining establishments in Los Angeles County.


Keywords:
raymond,restaurant,travel,leisure,dining,dine,pasadena,california


Article Body:
Thousands of people drive by The Raymond Restaurant every day and don't even realize what it is. The Raymond Restaurant, 1250 S. Fairoaks Ave., Pasadena, Ca. 91105, (626) 441-3136, occupies and old weathered caretaker's cottage which looks, from the outside, like a fairly run down old house set back off the street. Looks, however, can be deceiving. The old saying, "You can't judge a book by it's cover", is especially true in the case of The Raymond. Inside that weathered cottage is one of the best fine dining establishments in Los Angeles County. 

Inside The Raymond you are transported to a cozy, romantic, old fashion setting with intimate dining rooms, secluded booths, comfortable seating, leaded glass, fine china, and three candlelit garden patios. 

There is another old saying, "you get what you pay for". That saying doesn't hold true in the case of The Raymond Restaurant. There you get much more than your money's worth. Their prices are extremely reasonable, take their 12 ounce filet mignon with sauteed vegetables, chanterelle mushrooms, herbed butter, crispy leeks and garlic mashed potatoes for $39.00. The beef is tender aged prime beef cooked exactly the way you ask for it, the sauteed vegetables are not over or under cooked, the chanterelle mushrooms are delicious and the garlic mashed potatoes are spiced just right. I have had meals that cost twice as much and are not half as good. The only problem with The Raymond is that their menu is rather sparse when it comes to beef. Their only beef entre is the filet mignon. If you have to have prime rib or a ribeye or other type of steak you are out of luck. 

The service at The Raymond is excellent. The waitstaff are friendly without being too familiar, attentive while not being obsequious and speedy without rushing you or invading your space. 

The ambiance at The Raymond is quiet, relaxing and romantic. This is a great place to celebrate an anniversary, have a Valentine's dinner with that special loved one or someone that you want to get to know better or to get a new relationship off to a good start. While The Raymond Restaurant is an excellent place to take your spouse or date, it is also an excellent place to take a client or prospective client. The excellent service, great cuisine and quiet atmosphere will go a long way towards making your business relationship a success. 

The Raymond is also a good establishment to take Afternoon Tea with it's large selection of teas, champaign, sherry, sparkling cider, scones, tea pastries and finger sandwiches. You and your guests or companions can relax and enjoy a good conversation while being pampered by the excellent waitstaff. 

If you like fine cuisine and great service in a quiet relaxed atmosphere, try The Raymond Restaurant.

For a directory of restaurants and restaurant reviews in the city of Pasadena, California see <a href="http://pasadena.usacitydirectories.com/restaurants.html" target="noframes">http://pasadena.usacitydirectories.com/restaurants.html</a>, a directory listing Pasadena restaurants alphabetically and by category or type with reviews written by restaurant customers.


