Title: 
Discovering The Arts Explosion In Minneapolis

Word Count:
340

Summary:
The cultural landscape of Minneapolis--already rich in museums and theater--is experiencing an arts explosion.


Keywords:
Discovering The Arts Explosion In Minneapolis


Article Body:
The cultural landscape of Minneapolis--already rich in museums and theater--is experiencing an arts explosion. As the only U.S. destination named to Travel + Leisure magazine's list of "up-and-coming places to visit in 2006," this recent boom places Minneapolis in the company of other high-profile international destinations. Driven by five critically acclaimed international architects, the 18-month transformation has led to nearly a half-billion dollars in new cultural infrastructure.

The dynamic offerings include: 

Walker Art Center-Recognized as the country's foremost contemporary arts center, the expansion doubled the facility and includes impressive new galleries and a 385-seat theater. The New York Times calls it "one of the country's liveliest and most personable museums." The museum had over 600,000 visitors in the first 10 weeks after its reopening. 

The Children's Theatre Company--America's flagship theater for young people and families. Time magazine heralded it as the country's best kids troupe. It is the first (and only) Tony Award-winning theater for young people. The recent expansion adds a second stage for programming targeting preschool and teen audiences.

Minneapolis Public Library--A fabulous destination for travelers, the new Central library will house the nation's fourth-largest public library collection. It includes five stories of space for books, fireside reading dens, a cafe, teen center and an expansive children's library. 

The Minneapolis Institute of Arts--One of the nation's leading encyclopedic art museums, it now has 40 percent more gallery space and a collection of over 100,000 objects spanning 5,000 years. The museum is one of only a handful in the country to offer free admission. 

Guthrie Theater-Symbol of the birth of the not--for-profit resident theater movement, this highly regarded regional theater invites visitors from around the globe to its new three-theater complex. The lobbies and its 178-foot- long cantilever bridge are open to the public, offering spectacular views of the Mississippi River.

In addition to three Tony Award-winning theaters and the exciting art scene, Minneapolis boasts the nation's largest shopping mall, five professional sports teams, 57 museums, world-class restaurants, a vibrant nightlife, and many opportunities for recreation within the city limits.


