Title: 
Discovering Deluxe Martinique Vacation Destinations

Word Count:
367

Summary:
Escaping to a tropical island is most people's idea of a fantasy vacation, but when that island comes complete with a little bit of France, it can be even more appealing.


Keywords:
Discovering Deluxe Martinique Vacation Destinations


Article Body:
Escaping to a tropical island is most people's idea of a fantasy vacation, but when that island comes complete with a little bit of France, it can be even more appealing.

That's what many vacationers love about Martinique, which has become the Caribbean island to discover or rediscover. Not only is it beautiful-with lush gardens, pristine beaches and tropical rainforests-it's rich in French culture, food and joie de vivre. 

Blessed with an idyllic climate and a wealth of cultural, artistic and scenic attractions, Martinique is unlike any other tropical destination. Not only is the flower-filled island full of visual delights, it offers soothing spas and luxury hotels in which you can pamper yourself.

If nurturing yourself is in your nature, you may want to book yourself into the visually stunning Relais and Chateaux Cap Est Lagoon Resort and Spa. Cap Est has 50 suites, two restaurants, two beaches and a lavish swimming pool. The fashionable, four-star deluxe hotel offers windsurfing, sea kayaking, a tennis court and a heart fitness room, plus the Belem restaurant, cited in Condé Nast Traveler's list of Hot Tables. The spa, in partnership with Guerlain, exudes Japanese ambience, featuring jet showers, algae baths, Jacuzzis and hydrotherapy.

Located on the grounds of a former coconut plantation, Club Med Buccaneer's Creek offers countless ways to pamper yourself, from an exquisite afternoon at the spa-which has five different treatment rooms-to a delicious evening of cocktails and fine island cuisine at their international and Creole restaurants and poolside grill. 

The chic, trendy Sofitel Bakoua offers an outstanding level of comfort: excellent tropical cocktails, a swimming pool and the My Bed program with extremely comfortable beds and lots of pillows to promote a peaceful and serene night. 

When you're hungry, there's plenty of fine dining. Favorites include La Plantation, which specializes in foie gras terrine, and Le Belem, which serves superb French food in an innovative and warm decor. You must travel through a cane field to discover La Case Thai, nestled among Asian sacred lotus and orchids. The Thai food it serves is fit for its stunning surroundings. Tantalize your taste buds with Creole cooking, which features local ingredients and a melange of African, Indian and French seasonings.


