Title: 
Discover Buca di Beppo In Pasadena California

Word Count:
594

Summary:
Do you like hearty Southern Italian food served in hugh portions? Do you like to eat untill you are stuffed and still have a ton of leftovers to take home? Do you like to eat where everything is delicious, fresh and well prepared? Do you like thick aromatic sauses on your spaghetti and other pastas and meats? Do you like a highly varied menu?


Keywords:
buca di beppo,italian restaurant,pasadena,california,ca,travel,destinations,dining,eateries


Article Body:
Do you like hearty Southern Italian food served in hugh portions? Do you like to eat untill you are stuffed and still have a ton of leftovers to take home? Do you like to eat where everything is delicious, fresh and well prepared? Do you like thick aromatic sauses on your spaghetti and other pastas and meats? Do you like a highly varied menu? Do you like a noisy, brightly lit family style restaurant where it seems like one big constant party? Do you like restaurant employees, servers and supervisors that treat you like a member of the family? Do you want to go where you can dress casual or dressy and not stand out either way? Do you want a restaurant where they love kids and want everyone to enjoy themselves? If the foregoing sounds good, then you will love the Buca di Beppo Italian Restaurant in Old Town, Pasadena, California. By the way, the management are very attentive and if you become unhappy about anything let them know and they will do their best to make things right.
<br><br>
I normally prefer small quiet dimly lit restaurants where I can relax and have a quiet conversation with my wife and or guests, however the food and service are so good at this Buca di Beppo that anytime I crave Southern Italian food, this is the place that I pick. Additionally, my wife and I can invite two to serveral guests, treat and not break the bank. At first glance portion prices seem fairly high, however each portion can feed two to three people with plenty of food left over for our guests to take home. Our biggest problem is deciding which entrees to order. They are all so good. Note: This is an extremely good place to hold a birthday party or office function.
<br><br>
If there are just two of you, you may wish to try eating on their rather small patio and do some people watching, or you may want to eat at their kitchen table which holds up to six people, which of course is in the kitchen. This is a very popular table and it is almost impossible to obtain without a reservation.
<br><br>
This restaurant is located at 80 West Green Street, Pasadena, CA  91105 on the corner of DeLacy and Green streets, kitty corner from the Twin Palms Restaurant and at the edge of the Pasadena Old Town district. There is not much in the way of street parking but there is a large parking garage on Delacy between the Twin Palms and the JJ Steak House Restaurants. Reservations are not required for regular seating but this place is extremely popular and reservations are a good idea. Buca's telephone number is (626) 792-7272.
<br><br>
After eating you might find it a good idea to walk off some of that food by taking a stroll through Old Town. The Old Town district has plenty to see and do. Visit the boutiques and shops, check out an art gallery, take in a movie, go dancing at one of the night spots, watch everyone else or if you manage to walk off some calories have coffee and a pastry at one of the sidewalk restaurants or bakeries. 
<br><br>
For a directory of restaurants and restaurant reviews in the city of Pasadena, California see <a href="http://pasadena.usacitydirectories.com/restaurants.html" target="noframes">http://pasadena.usacitydirectories.com/restaurants.html</a>, a directory listing Pasadena restaurants alphabetically and by category or type with reviews written by restaurant customers.


