Title: 
Discover Paseo Colorado In Pasadena California

Word Count:
349

Summary:
Just a few short blocks from famous Old Town Pasadena, California is the urban village of Paseo Colorado, a self contained residential apartment complex and shopping mall. According to Paseo Colorado's web site paseocoloradopasadena.com this development is "One of the largest concepts of its kind in the country, Paseo Colorado is an urban village


Keywords:
paseo colorado,pasadena,california,ca,travel,shopping,leisure,destinations


Article Body:
Just a few short blocks from famous Old Town Pasadena, California is the urban village of Paseo Colorado, a self contained residential apartment complex and shopping mall. According to Paseo Colorado's web site paseocoloradopasadena.com this development is "One of the largest concepts of its kind in the country, Paseo Colorado is an urban village featuring a unique collection of retail stores, fine and casual dining, luxury apartment homes, and garden promenades that restore vital links to the historic core of Pasadena’s Civic Center and Old Pasadena."<br><br>
"Paseo Colorado features Mediterranean architecture, heavily landscaped pedestrian promenades, courtyards, towers and terraces. The property features a variety of artistic detail from well-known and respected artists, including a fountain featuring hand-made custom-glazed ceramic tile created by artist Anne Marie Karlsen, a second fountain embellished with an Italian glass mosaic by artist Margaret Nielsen, and intricate iron grills and rails created by artist Michael Amescua." There are 391 luxury residential apartments and lofts, an upscale Gelson's Supermarket, a Macy's Department Store, over sixty five specialty and botique shops, including Coach, Ann Taylor, Tony Bahama, Hugo Boss, Bombay Company and Sam Goody, a Pacific Theatre with fourteen screens, seventeen (17) dining establishments, a fitness club, a day spa and much more.<br><br>
This is an excellent place to spend time shopping and / or just relaxing. There is ample validated parking. There are plenty of places to sit and relax in the promenades, courtyards and restaurant patios, while watching people or listening to a live summer jazz concert. The shopkeepers and their employees are polite and helpful but not pushy. Everybody appears to be fairly laid back and nobody seems to be rushing you.
 <br><br>
For more information about the city of Pasadena, California see <a href="http://pasadena.usacitydirectories.com" target=noframes">http://pasadena.usacitydirectories.com</a>, a directory of links to city of Pasadena, California guides and directories listing hotels, restaurants, churches, physicians, attorneys, information, resources, services, things to do, places to go, art galleries, service organizations, auto dealers, nursing homes, convalescent hospitals, antique dealers and more.


