Title: 
Discover India – the most colorful places on earth

Word Count:
559

Summary:
If you are thinking of your next vacation, think about India. One of the most colorful countries on earth, India has so much offer that you will just not want to go back! The wide spectrum of cultures, traditions, history and the natural beauty of the place are sure to make your journey most memorable!


Keywords:
indian hotels, hotels in india, flights to india, india fares, fares to india, delhi fares


Article Body:
If you are thinking of your next vacation, think about India. One of the most colorful countries on earth, India has so much offer that you will just not want to go back! The wide spectrum of cultures, traditions, history and the natural beauty of the place are sure to make your journey most memorable! The magnificent Mogul monuments, the enchanting beauty of its temples and remnants of the grandeur and glory of the Rajput reign are a few reasons why thousands of visitors come here year after year. A land of cultural diversity, India is one of the largest democratic countries in the world. From plush locales to serene countryside, this amazing destination is full of surprises!

From hiking in the most challenging Himalayan peaks, to camel ride in the vast desert stretches and from wildlife Safari at a National Park to a relaxing beach vacation at Goa, there is so much to experience! While you are here don't miss places like Agra – home to the world renowned monument, the Taj Mahal, Rajasthan - the land of architectural marvels and Goa - a hot spot for those who love Sun 'n' Sand. Another place that will capture your heart is Kerala. Nicknamed as the 'God's own country', the breathtaking beaches here offer a refreshing retreat.

Consisting of so many states within one political boundary, every place in India is dissimilar from the other. The north has its own flamboyant cultures and the south beckons visitors to witness the elaborate religious ceremonies. A heady mix of the old and the new, you fill find the value system of the past greatly preserved by the present. 

India is also famous for adventure tourism. Hiking, trekking, river rafting, ice skating and the wildlife safari at Jim Corbett park are the activities that you can indulge in! Whether you are coming here alone or with family, you can always get a package online to match your travel needs. Another advantage of booking your tour online is that some sites also provide you with travel insurance, so that you don't have to worry about getting one. 

With growth of tourism industry, the country offers plenty of <a href="http://www.onetravelindia.com/Default.aspx?tabid=3798">Hotels</a>, resorts and villas to make your stay comfortable. Whether you are looking for a luxury hotel with world-class facilities or a nice budget accommodation, you will easily find one for yourself. However, before you step out of your hotel room, hiring a tourist guide is highly recommended. 

There are several kinds of tour options to <a href="http://www.onetravelindia.com/travel/travel-india.asp">travel india</a>. You can choose these tours depending upon the places you would like to visit. If you are interested in the cultural heritage of the country then taking a tour that covers the prominent historical destinations will give you what you want. But, if you love adventure, than you should book an adventure tour to experience the best adrenaline sports. Another popular tour is the Golden triangle tour, which covers important cities in Delhi, Jaipur and Agra.

The panoramic landscapes, golden beaches, blazing desert, the ancient monuments and the culture of the bygone era have made India - a land of striking contrasts. Nowhere in the world you will find incredible fascination and charm as you will find during your trip to India.


