Title: 
Disneyland - Fun for All the Family

Word Count:
354

Summary:
Although some time ago now, I can still remember my visit to Disneyland Florida when I was a child. This is because of the enjoyment that I felt when I was there. It was almost as though this place was a fantasy and it really is a child's dream to go there. However this isn't to say that adults can not enjoy the visit, and in fact there are a number of attractions that can be enjoyed for people of all ages.


Keywords:
disneyland,disneyland 50th,disneyland tickets,disneyland california,disneyland paris,disneyland florida,disneyland vacations,disneyland hotel,disney


Article Body:
Although some time ago now, I can still remember my visit to Disneyland Florida when I was a child. This is because of the enjoyment that I felt when I was there. It was almost as though this place was a fantasy and it really is a child's dream to go there. However this isn't to say that adults can not enjoy the visit, and in fact there are a number of attractions that can be enjoyed for people of all ages.

There is always something to see or do at Disneyland during the daytime, and there is also nightly entertainment during the peak season, and weekend entertainment during the off-season.

On Tom Sawyer's Island, a show called Fantasmic is held twice each night during the peak season and on off-season weekends. It features many Disneyland characters, fireworks, and music, and although seating is free, it is recommended to purchase tickets for the show in advance for the best seating possible.

Twice each day, The Parade of Dreams takes place and again includes many of the Disneyland characters, with choreographed shows featuring at various times throughout the parade.

Musical shows are available at many times throughout the day, including the Snow White musical in the Fantasyland Theater.

There is so much to see at Disneyland and so much going on that is impossible to get bored, and then to end the day you should not miss out on the fireworks display. The fireworks show is held late each night, before the park closes for the day.

If you are staying in a Disneyland hotel you will probably even be able to see the display from there if you can not stay for the fireworks! The firework display is a perfect opportunity to take some photo snaps to remember your time there, especially if you get to view the show from in front of Sleeping Beauty's Castle.

Most of the entertainment is included in the admission price. However, consider purchasing priority seating for some events that you are desperate to see, as being able to view shows from good seating makes them even more memorable.


