Title: 
Disney World Traveling

Word Count:
449

Summary:
Disney World is probably the most popular theme park in the world, attractions, rides, characters, the works, there is no doubt that nobody goes to Disney World to get headaches. To prevent unnecessary muscle and head pain, it is best to be prepared.

Proper Season

It is best to go to Disney World during off season, which is roughly around early January to mid February, or after Labor Day through mid December. During off season, there are less people, less congestion and...


Keywords:
travel, backpack, sightseeing, disney, walt


Article Body:
Disney World is probably the most popular theme park in the world, attractions, rides, characters, the works, there is no doubt that nobody goes to Disney World to get headaches. To prevent unnecessary muscle and head pain, it is best to be prepared.

Proper Season

It is best to go to Disney World during off season, which is roughly around early January to mid February, or after Labor Day through mid December. During off season, there are less people, less congestion and less headaches. What’s more, it rarely gets cold in Florida, even during winter season, and it gets swelteringly hot and humid during summer, so winter, really is the time to go.

The Proper Lodgings

Although it is cheaper to stay in hotels outside of Disney World, the extra cash you’ll have to cough up if you stay inside is more than made up for by the comfort and convenience of an inside stay.

Imagine getting traveling from your room, then going through the 47 square mile area that is Disney world, then traveling back to your Hotel… exhausting isn’t it?

The Proper Schedule

Where to actually go once you get there is determined by your choice of companions, kids, teenagers or adults.

Kids

Go through Cinderella’s Castle and Visit Fantasy Land or Mickey’s Toon Town, the little tots will surely love all the characters roaming around that area. The rides in these parts are built for 6 year olds and below, but mommy or daddy can still squeeze themselves in if they want.

Adults or Teens

A trip to Magic Kingdom may be in order if you’re with big kids. You can go to Splash Mountain to get wet or to Space Mountain to get some indoor rollercoaster, and fun for the bumpy person, Big Thunder Mountain Railroad should be enough to satisfy their taste for adventure.

Rides for Everyone

If you want something that everyone can enjoy, a ride in the Walt Disney World Railroad, can rest those tired feet and at the same time give you an enjoyable view of Magic Kingdom. 

Haunted Mansion, although not really for very young kids, can be a thrill for toddlers, it’s a ride not a walk through so there’s no tripping or running involved. 

For relaxing walks, try the Tiki Room Show or the Swiss family Tree House.

The Proper Dining Experience

For cute snacks, try the Aloha Isle inside Adventureland, they conjure up creative drinks and snacks, a good place to try something cute and different.

Cosmic Ray’s Starlight Cafe provides a cool indoor dining area between Fantasyland and Tomorrowland where you can enjoy your food to your hearts content.


