Title: 
Disney Vacation Rentals and Holiday Homes in Florida, Davenport, Kissimee and Orlando

Word Count:
543

Summary:
Hotels always come across to be trifle expensive on the agenda whenever you travel irrespective of the destination. The alternative is: Disney vacation rentals and holiday homes in Florida offer far cheaper rates than most hotels.


Keywords:
Disney,Florida,Orlando, Kissimee, Davenport,rental,List,listing,villa,vacation rentals,holiday rentals, holiday homes,vacation homes,travel,lodging,condo


Article Body:
If you are looking forward to visiting Disney World or other attractions in Orlando, planning the trick with a little information could help save you money. Instead of opting for the first package that comes your way, its best to get some more knowledge of hotels and other kinds of lodgings available might be a good idea. Even if you are from Florida, some tips form this article may help you in getting your required and budgeted accommodation.

A popular misconception is that the resort exists in Orlando. In fact, the entire Walt Disney World property is outside Orlando city limits; the majority sits within southwestern Orange County, with the remainder in adjacent Osceola County to the south.

Most of Walt Disney World's Central Florida land and all of the public areas are located in the cities of Bay Lake and Lake Buena Vista, located southwest of Orlando and a few miles northwest of Kissimmee. The land within Walt Disney World Resort is part of the Reedy Creek Improvement District, which allows the Disney corporation to exercise quasi-governmental powers over the area.

Hotels always come across to be trifle expensive on the agenda whenever you travel irrespective of the destination. The alternative is vacation rentals that offer far cheaper rates than most hotels. Vacation rentals may come to include various kinds of lodging like privately owned cottages, condos or large and luxurious villas that can be directly rented or leased from their owners, their agents or through vacation rental agencies. A lot of variety is available to choose from and they are ideal for families looking forward to make use of Disney vacation rentals.

Florida Disney vacation rental lodgings offer cheaper prices resulting in huge savings in costs compared to staying at a hotel. Most of these privately owned accommodations are listed directly by their owners, resulting in saving more money by avoiding middle men. Orlando being one of the most popular vacation destination in the USA because it has something for everyone - Disney with its four theme parks – MGM Studios, Magic Kingdom, EPCOT, Animal Kingdom in addition to the 3 water parks and more than eight golf courses, not to mention many other attractions.

The Walt Disney World resort also includes six world-class golf courses. The five 18-hole golf courses are the Magnolia, the Palm, Lake Buena Vista, Eagle Pines, and Osprey Ridge (the last two are part of the Bonnet Creek Golf Club). There is also a nine-hole walking course called Oak Trail, designed for young golfers. Together, they are known as Disney's "99 holes of golf." There are two miniature golf courses, Fantasia Gardens and Winter Summerland.

Walt Disney World paved the way for many other theme parks and attractions in the area, including SeaWorld and Universal Studios, and helped make Orlando a popular tourist destination for people from all over the world.

Since the best time to visit Florida and its attractions is from October to April, it is best to get reservations at least 2 months in advance. If you are a regular Disney buff, you may even consider owning a vacation home there which can be rented out as and when not required by you. Investment, return and appreciation along with the pleasure of a Disney holiday is a reality.


