Title: 
Do’s And Don’ts To Keep You Safe If You Travel To Brazil

Word Count:
554

Summary:
A nation that is rich in sights and attractions, Brazil is one of the best destination choices when you fly south of America. Brazil is the 5th largest and 5th most populous country in the world. Its territory spans from the Atlantic Ocean to the central and east of South America, dwarfing the neighboring countries of Argentina, Uraguay, and Paraguay in the south, Bolivia and Peru in the east, and Columbia, Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname, and French Guiana in the north. 

10 M...


Keywords:
brazil travel


Article Body:
A nation that is rich in sights and attractions, Brazil is one of the best destination choices when you fly south of America. Brazil is the 5th largest and 5th most populous country in the world. Its territory spans from the Atlantic Ocean to the central and east of South America, dwarfing the neighboring countries of Argentina, Uraguay, and Paraguay in the south, Bolivia and Peru in the east, and Columbia, Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname, and French Guiana in the north. 

10 Most Popular Brazil destinations:

Copacabana Beach, Rio de Janeiro, 
Corcovado, Rio de Janeiro, 
Museu de Arte de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, 
Ipanema Beach, Rio de Janeiro, 
Tijuca National Park, Rio de Janeiro, 
Iguacu Falls, Foz de Iguacu, Parana
Pantanal Wetlands, Pantanal, Mato Grosso
Teatro Municipal, Rio de Janeiro, 
Sugar Loaf Mountain (Pao de Acucar), Rio de Janeiro
Pelourinho, Salvador, Bahia

If you plan to travel to any of these places or plan take Brazil experience elsewhere, here are some of the things you should remember. 

Do’s:

1. Try to learn as much Portuguese as you can. Yes, Portuguese. If you happen to visit other South American countries and have learned Spanish in the process, well, you can’t use it. Try to learn some word- the usual conversational phrases and sentences. Remember that although you can survive with English in large cities, most people living in rural areas would not be able to understand you. 

2. Avoid dark and isolated places especially if you are alone.

3. Carry only the basics. In this way, you can avoid the eyes of petty criminals. 

4. Know your destination before leaving. This rule applies before you leave the United State and upon arrival at your hotel. Keep a map if you must and don’t allow anyone to know you are lost if ever you caught in the situation. Knowing where you are going leads to a safer Brazil travel. 

5. Bring necessary clothes and survival stuff. Bring long pants, long-sleeved shirt, eyeglasses, cap or hat to avoid mosquito bites. To further attracting illnesses from insects like dengue, leishmaniasis, and malaria, do bring insect repellant. Or, if you are planning to stay out overnight, bring mosquito nets, insect sprays, and necessary prescription medications. 

6. Take taxi instead of busses. Bring money pouches strap around your neck. If you are driving your car, always keep the door locked. 

7. Respect the locals.

8. If you are a victim of crime, report immediately. 

9. Brazil like any other places has rules to follow. Obey them to keep you out of trouble. 

Don’ts:

1. Never bring excessive valuables and show it to public. As much as possible leave your rings, necklaces, bracelets, and other jewelries in a safe place. You can rent a purchase deposit box to keep your valuables safe. 

2. Don’t carry money and credit card you don’t need because you can never tell when pickpocketers attack. Although Brazil has several safe places for tourists like Rio de Janeiro, it is always wise to keep your money in safe place. Try to carry enough cash for the day or at least one credit card with you. Leave the rest in you hotel. 

3. Don’t swim in any fresh waters. 

4. Avoid eating street foods and drink only bottled water. Don’t handle any animals. 

5. Don’t bring to your hotel room any strangers you meet outside.


