Title: 
Dubai Marina - The Heart Of UAE

Word Count:
731

Summary:
Providing Dubai with an adequate amount of living and working space has always remained to be one of the prime concerns for its planners. Read how they are achieving it by developing Dubai's shorelines now.


Keywords:
dubai apartments, dubai furnished apartments, dubai beach apartments, dubai accommodation, dubai holiday rentals, dubai holiday apartments, dubai holiday homes, dubai self catering, dubai hotel apartments, dubai marina rentals, dubai rental, dubai apartments rental, dubai serviced apartments, dubai furnished villas


Article Body:
Providing Dubai with an adequate amount of living and working space has always remained to be one of the prime concerns for its planners. But, with very little possibility being left out for growing horizontally, the developers have had no other choice but to go looking forward to achieving some vertical enhancements. This means building up more and more number of towers in the areas already being dug up and under construction. Providing more accommodation in the form of Dubai Marina was the next move they could have thought of, and what a brilliant idea it has proved to be until now. There is no better way than to start building houses on the seabed anyway, to meet up with the man's growing desire for accommodation.

The marina, called initially Westside, looks set to become one of the main tourism attractions for the travellers in the years to follow. Dubai hotels have also started moving in with their assets having got the wind of its rising value. Notwithstanding the current record for being the biggest man-made marina in the name of Marina Del Rey in Los Angeles, Dubai's Marina promises to become a more exciting prospect for the trade and commerce and the travellers on its completion.

Having started taking shape since the year 1998, the plans remain no more a secret for the outside world by today. It will be providing with an extra amount of 53 million square feet for Dubai's needs by the time it fully gets running. The project involves carving out of 2 miles of Dubai's shoreline for making various constructions, including featuring canals just like in Venice. With the aims like building up high-end villas and apartments for about 120,000 people, the Dubai Marina development looks set to become one of the best in man's history until today.

The first phase of the Dubai Marina development, comprising of 25 acres, lasted from the year 1999 to 2003 and cost $200 million in amounts. Six freehold waterfront apartment towers and 64 villas, all having rooftop gardens were constructed during this initial development. Since the foreign nationals were allowed to own these villas and apartments, it was a great opportunity for all those who had a desire for owning houses in Dubai. The very thought of marina living is such an exciting prospect, specially for those with a high-end purchasing power, that these properties have been selling like hot cakes. The development of phase one also included the construction of parking space for 2000 cars, sports facilities, 6 swimming pools, themed restaurants, a prayer hall, and a space for retail outlets. All of this was planned and constructed just to see through the initial phase. 

The entire zone of Dubai Marina is also called as the Heart of New Dubai because of its strategic location within the fast growing areas of the city. The intention behind its development was to create a small-scale city within Dubai with an enviable infrastructure. It is precisely situated on Interchange 5, between Jebel Ali Port and Dubai Internet City, Dubai Media City, and the American University, thus providing the perfect location for getting on with Dubai's life.

This man-made marina is being developed by the real estate giant of UAE, Emaar Properties, and will have 200 buildings, including skyscrapers, Marina Torch, Dubai Marina Towers, Number One Dubai, Princess Tower, Infinity Tower, Marina Terrace, Horizon Tower, and Le Reve, besides providing a strategic access to many hotel owners.

An ambitious project within Dubai Marina will be Marina 101, which is expected to measure up to 412 meters in height on its completion. It will provide 1.5 million square feet of living and working space to the occupiers of its 101 planned floors. This building is part of Sheffield Real Estate, a global real estate giant, widely known for their freehold property developments. The amount of space to be generated by this building will be unparalleled anywhere in or outside Dubai. Additionally, the very outlook of Marina 101 is going to be fabulous, with the outer layer being constructed of glass and the summit to be made to look like as a glowing crown. The tower is expected to be available by the year 2010.

There is no argument about the excitement Dubai Marina holds and the commerce it might generate. What remains to be seen however, is how long will it remain the prime location of UAE, since Dubai is well known for dishing out similar landmarks on a regular interval.


