Title: 
Easter markets in prague

Word Count:
511

Summary:
There are many ways to spend the so-long-waited warmer spring days and many nice places to head to.


Keywords:
Hostel, backpackers, prague


Article Body:
If you are planning a Eastern Europe city break one of the most interesting and entertaining cities would probably be Prague. March offers many possibilities to spend a few days off in a cultural environment still rich in tradition. This year Easter comes quite early and exactly from 21-24 March so that X-Mas holiday memories are still fresh. 

As Easter in Prague is a special time most of the city's attractions like opera house, theatres, pubs, restaurants and other entertainment operate every day are open throughout. In particular over the Easter weekend, whilst some shops and restaurants may be closed on Easter Monday. In any case, from the 8th until the 30th of March 2008 Prague features its famous and world attractive Easter Markets. 

They open daily and offer many handcrafted goods, including wooden toys, traditional dolls and puppets, typical bohemian crystal and jewellery, and of course, everything related to the Easter Season. In fact, you won’t miss the brightly coloured, hand-painted Easter eggs and the pastel-colour candles to bring to your friends or decorate your home. 

It is possible to purchase Easter Egg and ask for personalized decorations on it. We got a nice bunny with a name of our friend on it. On Easter Sunday in particular, girls and women especially in the surrounding villages paint eggs in many personal variations. A mixture of watercolours, picture stickers, bee's wax, straw and/or feathers can be used. Prague also hosts an Easter egg contest annually  where girls paint their Easter eggs whilst boys prepare their Easter whips for Easter Monday.  

Visitors may see examples of these Easter whips in the Prague Markets that, as well as the Christmas Markets in Prague, spread their 100 and more stalls all over from the Old Town Square to Wenceslas Square. Czech ladies also dress up in traditional costumes and will be a perfect subject for your pictures!! For men following their wives felt a prey to Easter shopping, there will be a vast range of food and drink, from hot sausages to ice-cold Pilsner beer. 

The official Prague beer! Although terribly unhealthy, tasty yummy barbecued sausages or roasting pigs and chips will probably be your treat!! There are many other attractions in Prague: the Jewish ghetto can represent also the religious Prague tour while there for Easter. Consider it’s high season for Prague as the city is quite well renown for its Easter markets and it’s the perfect period to go. So consider to find your accommodation in advance. In particular, there are multitudes of youth hostels spreading all over although not always their standards are comparable to the Europeans. 

Nevertheless prices are very good and now they are all run by young people offering all comforts and services backpackers might need as internet connections, common rooms, kitchen. Some also offer swimming pool and sauna. But if you are travelling with family or in a small group you can also consider the comfort of having a private apartment in Prague to share: that can allow you total privacy and relevant costs cut off!


