Title: 
Eclectic Barcelona – What a Blast

Word Count:
505

Summary:
Barcelona is one of my favorite cities in Europe. From a general liveliness to museums to attractions, Barcelona has it all and definite eclectic flare.


Keywords:
barcelona, spain, europe, la ramba, fc barcelona, picasso, guadi, ciutat vella, old city


Article Body:
Barcelona is one of my favorite cities in Europe. From a general liveliness to museums to attractions, Barcelona has it all and definite eclectic flare.

Eclectic Barcelona – What a Blast

Barcelona is the capital of Catalonia, an autonomous area in the south east of Spain. The city sits directly on the Mediterranean coast and the population is over 5 million in greater Barcelona. 

At one point in time, Barcelona was a Roman military camp. Throughout history, the Moors, Visigoths and various other powers have conquered it. All have left imprints on the city, which gives it a certain eclectic atmosphere. 

Spend any time in Barcelona and you will fall in love with Ciutat Vella, the old city. Ciutat Vella lies at the heart of Barcelona and retains some of the Roman architectural structures and walls. It truly feels like stepping back in time and you roam the streets taking in the atmosphere. 

La Ramba is the main road running from the center of the city down to the harbor. Make sure you wonder up and down the full length of it. The boulevard is an eclectic gathering of people, bizarre little booths, an epic opera house and a great place to just watch people. When day turns to evening, you can dance the night away in a zillion different little bars and clubs. 

If architecture is your thing, Barcelona is a gem. Antoni Guadi lived and worked in Barcelona. Guadi is known for his drip like architecture, which has to be seen to be believed. His legacy can best be found in the Sagrada Familia, the church he was unable to finish before his death. Started in 1882, construction continues to this very day. The Casa Batllo and Casa Mila are two other Guadi creations worth a visit, but any of his structures will make your jaw drop. 

For museums, Barcelona also has an eclectic collection. The Fundacio Joan Miro has early works from Pablo Picasso. The National Museum of Art of Catalonia contains large sections of older structures in the city that were transferred prior to demolition. A city within a museum, if you will. Following the eclectic them of Barcelona, the museums open and close at truly bizarre times. There seems to be no rhyme or reason, so make sure you find out before going to one. 

Whether you call it football or soccer, Barcelona has one of the dominant clubs in Europe and just as passionate supporters. FC Barcelona is a religious institution unto itself. If you are in Barcelona during the season, make absolutely sure you go to a game. The crowd is mad with passion, but there is never any violence. Whether you are a football fan or no nothing about the game, you will be swept up in the atmosphere. 

If a trip to Europe is on your mind, you will find it hard to beat Barcelona as a destination. Keep in mind, however, that it will be very, very hard to leave Barcelona once you get swept up in it.


