Title: 
Egyptian travel guide

Word Count:
503

Summary:
The land of the Pharaohs. The child of the Nile. Call it by any name but the mystic land never ends to attract the greatest people to it. It’s the country, which is home to the oldest civilization of the world.


Keywords:
egypt, plan, travel, beaches, shopping


Article Body:
The land of the Pharaohs. The child of the Nile. Call it by any name but the mystic land never ends to attract the greatest people to it. It’s the country, which is home to the oldest civilization of the world. The magnanimity and the grandeur of the Egyptian civilization is what make it the traveler’s paradise. The popularity of the place is mainly because of the great pyramids at Giza. These architectural and construction wonders have made a firm footing in the list of the Seven Wonders of the World. And that is not all. The pyramids are present at other places too. The famous statue of the Sphinx is also there in Giza. The fertility of the Nile Basin is the main reason why the greatest civilization could thrive there.

The capital city of Cairo is also an international hub now. The city is a smooth blend of culture and modernization. The city has the greatest business centers and the best infrastructure in the country. Ancient museums and art galleries adorn this city. The city holds the distinction of being the oldest in the world. The best way to travel around the city is on foot. This gives the inquisitive tourist ample time to see each structure. But for the people wit less time, transportation is easy in the city. Many mosques are there and they give an impression of the grandeur of architecture. 

The great desert surrounds the country and the most important sources of life in the desert are the oases. These are the fertile lands in the middle of the desert, which are used for agriculture and cultivation. They are the cradles of life in the very challenging weathers of the desert. The Dakhla, the Siwa are some of the oases locations where the Egyptian people cultivate. The nomads of the desert find a resting place in the oases. The Foyum is a large oasis and is the source of salt. Many tourists from Islamic and non-islamic countries come to visit the country. 

Mount Sinai is one of the sacred spots of the country. It was the place where Moses gave the famous TEN COMMANDMENTS to his disciples and explained them the message of the God. The place is known for its religious importance. The place is lined by the Red Sea, which houses very beautiful coral reef, and it offers fantastic geographic beauty. Apart from the religious pursuits the city also offers the best shopping hubs and showrooms. The city is never short of new things to show. But the spots of religious and historical importance remain the most visited. There are many water parks that offer joy rides and other entertainment offers. The cities of Egypt are always bustling with activity and the bird watchers can find the natural beauties around Lake Nasser. The country fulfills all the expectations of the visitors completely. The most important point remains the preservation of the cultural heritage and that had to in the hands of the residents.


