Title: 
Enjoying 3 Luxury Days in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Word Count:
544

Summary:
Rio de Janeiro is a major highlight of visiting South America and this article presents a sample of a vacation to be enjoyed at this unique destination.


Keywords:
rio de janeiro, rio, centro, leblon, copacabana, ipanema, buzios, petropolis, carioca, bossa nova, travel, vacation, lodging, dinning, shopping, beaches, nightlife, cuisine, restaurants, architecture,


Article Body:
Experience the stunning natural beauty of the surrounding mountains and the vibrant beach culture of one of the most beautiful cities in the world: Rio de Janeiro, the gem of Brazil.  Spend three days in five star luxury at the beachfront hotel while you visit the highlights that have made this one of the most visited destinations in South America.  Below is a sample of just one of the ways to spend 3 days in paradise.

Day 1: 
Arrive at the Copacabana Palace Hotel from the airport.  After a brief rest, take a guided tour of the majestic Corcovado Mountain.  From here you値l travel by cograil through the Tijuca Rainforest, the world痴 largest urban forest, and then to the summit where you値l find the famous Christ the Redeemer Statue standing before the city at 125 feet.  The views from here are spectacular, with a wide panorama of the ocean, lagoon, and the city.  Then you値l have a chance to relax on the Copacabana beach and enjoy one of the greatest getaways in the world, with the beaches lying between a tropical refuge and the vibrant international metropolis of Rio.  Later than night enjoy a cocktail by the pool at the hotel. 

Day 2:  
Discover Sugar Loaf Mountain with a guided tour, beginning with a scenic drive along the Copacabana and Ipanema beaches.  Here you can have the chance to stop off and enjoy relaxing on the beach and shopping at the Masquerade Village Shops.  Enjoy the myriad of different boutiques, art galleries, and specialty stores.  The beachfront has a lively carnival atmosphere with ongoing free masquerade shows, live entertainment and dancing, and many bars and restaurants to choose from.   Then you値l take a cable car ride for a tour of the gardens and vistas of Urca Mountain.  You値l continue the ascent to the peak of Sugar Loaf Mountain.  At 1,300 feet you can see the coastlines and the massive cliffs of Guanabara Bay.

Day 3: 
The tour of the center of Rio begins at the monument in honor of Estacio de Sa who founded the city in 1565.  From here you値l have excellent views of the beaches and Sugar Loaf Mountain.  Continuing on to the shores of Guanabara Bay you値l visit the Modern Art Museum, Rio痴 most important center for contemporary art, the Memorial of the Dead of the Second World War, and the beautiful Gloria Church, a Baroque-style building perched on a hill.  Then you値l head towards the Quinze de Novembro Square, the heart of Rio.  Other highlights of the tour include the Praca Maua, Brazil痴 first skyscraper, the Parisian-inspired Teatro Municipal Opera House, and the National Fine Arts Museum in Cinelandia Square.  After the tour spend the rest of the day relaxing at the beautiful white sand beach right in front of your hotel.  

Having enjoyed Rio, and the best of what it has to offer, you have the option to go onward to other highlights of Brazil: Igaussu Falls, the Amazon, Pantanal, or Salvador.  Or, jump over to another country such as Argentina, Chile or Peru while you are in the part of the world.


You can get further information about Rio de Janeiro <a href="http://www.braziltravelinformation.com/brazil_riodejaneiro.htm" target="_blank"> here </a>


