Title: 
Estartit a beautiful village on the northern coast of Spain

Word Count:
407

Summary:
Estartit is on the northern coast of Spain and about thirty miles from Gerona airport, it was originally a fishing village but development in this area has turned it into a great holiday destination.


Keywords:
advertising, marketing, online business, promotion, ecommerce, SEO


Article Body:
The resort Estartit is on the northern coast of Spain and about thirty miles from Gerona airport.

It was originally a fishing village but development in this area has turned it into a great holiday destination. The resort Estartit is a small town with a Marina and 6 km of sandy beach looking out to the beautiful Medas Islands, famous for it's marine life.

Good holiday accommodation can be found here. Prices suit all pockets, normally at the lower end of the price range. The shops cater for all your holiday needs. The beach is long and sandy and offers all kinds of water sports for you to try. There are diving schools which offer beginners courses for tourists which are ideal, for exploring the coral and aquatic life found just off the coast.

A fun fair at the edge of town and mini golf is situated close by.

There are plenty bars, discos and hotels with entertainment in this location making it ideal for families with children.

Activities such as windsurfing sailing, water-skiing and boat hire are all available. In addition to this Estartit, and in particular the protected Medas Isles are considered one of the best spots on the Mediterranean fore scuba-diving, and numerous diving schools including BSAC and PADI approved centres exist. Diving, Horse Riding Micro lighting Mountain Walks are all available. Sightseeing tours to Barcelona Gerona Figueras Montserrat etc can be booked in the town.

The Medes Islands is once the haven of pirates and smugglers these islands can be reached by glass bottomed boat allowing views of the spectacular clear water and marine life.

The Aquatic Park is fantastic waterslide park and situated in Rosas and has super fast chutes a Jacuzzi and a pool bar - a fun day out.

Like most European holiday resorts there are a huge number of restaurants and fast food outlets. There is traditional food and drinks such as Paella and Sangria and less traditional such as burger and coke.

The nightlife is huge and will suit all tastes from Spanish dances to family entertainment to young and lively bars. It therefore can be enjoyed by a number of age groups.

The weather is particularly hot in the summer months and therefore the resort is hugely populated. More comfortable weather is normally in the months of May and September and therefore the resort is less populated. The season would normally begin in April and run through to October.


