Title: 
Everything you need to know about Cabo San Lucas

Word Count:
515

Summary:
Cabo San Lucas is a vacation paradise. It has white sand beaches, crystal clear water, mountains, it is warm all the time and has tons of activities for everyone.


Keywords:
cabo san lucas, travel destination, vacation destination


Article Body:
Cabo San Lucas is a vacation paradise. It has white sand beaches, crystal clear water, mountains, it is warm all the time and has tons of activities for everyone. What else can you ask for in a vacation destination? Cabo San Lucas is located at the southern most tip of Mexico's Baja California peninsula.  Cabo San Lucas is best identified by the image of the world famous rock arch formation "El Arco" where the Pacific meets the warm water of the Sea of Cortes. The Sea of Cortes is one of the world's unique ocean environments. It is considered to be the biologically richest body of water on earth, supporting over 800 marine vertebrates species. Diver's come from all over the world to dive here.

Cabo San Lucas was once a frequent stop for pirates to hide what they had stole. Now it is a busy resort area. Cabo San Lucas is filled with  American food, American cars and most places accept American dollars.  Most of Cabo San Lucas was developed by American companies. Therefore it has a closer tie to the US than the Mexican mainland, which makes it more American friendly.

Cabo San Lucas also has activities galore. You can enjoy a horseback ride on the beach, world-class fishing, world-class diving, kayaking, golfing, surfing, mountain biking and some amazing whale-watching. Cabo San Lucas also has a very active nightlife. The clubs here vary from Rock ' Roll to jazz to a regular pub. Cabo San Lucas is also home to the "Cabo Wabo" which is owned by the famous Sammy Hagar.

Cabo San Lucas is known for it's marlin, hence the name "Marlin Capital of the World". More Marlin are caught here than anywhere in the world. There are many  fishing competitions in Cabo San Lucas each year. During these competitions there are so many boats in the water that it looks like a big froth of white water as the boats speed out of the bay. Cabo is home to the richest sport fishing tournament - the Brisbee which it's price money is in the millions every year.

Cabo San Lucas also has become world-class destination for golf with many golf tournaments hosted here every year. Along with the professionally designed courses by some of the world's most renowned golf course designers. The golf courses in Cabo San Lucas are expensive but, they are also first class courses.

The accommodations in Cabo San Lucas are also first class and feature some of Mexico's finest properties. Here in Cabo San Lucas you can find million dollar villas available for rent for the duration of your vacation along with many five star hotels. 

Cabo San Lucas is a great choice for vacation destination if you are looking for the sun and the sand to relax in. The atmosphere here, in Cabo San Lucas is also very relaxed. Despite being one of Mexico's most savvy destinations, Cabo San Lucas has remained relatively unknown outside of its primary west coast markets of California and Pacific Northwest. Which makes it a nice quiet recluse for those looking to get away.


