Title: 
Excursions in Mersin Cesmeli, Turkey

Word Count:
789

Summary:
Turkey is the newest holiday destination for many Europeans. Turkey is building many apartment complexes all over the country and especially along the Mediterranean coast.


Keywords:
turkey, mersin, cesmeli,excursion,tour 


Article Body:
A city that has such an apartment complex is Mersin Cesmeli on the southern coast of Turkey.

Not just for blue seas and the beautiful weather, Mersin is also known for the many fun things a tourist can do for fun. There are many tours, and fun things to do. For example the Heaven and Hell Tour which visits some of the cavas that bear the same name.

You leave at 9 am to visit the Heaven and Hell Caves, after which another cave is on the program, which has the somewhat medical name: the asthma caves. Then it is off to the Akyar or white rocks; a real treat for the eyes. Lunch is included in this tour and after lunch you’re off to some mosaic museums in Narlikuyu. The day ends with a visit to the Kizkalesi, also named the Maiden's Castle.

After a day of natural wonders it is time to see some human history. The Uzuncaburc Tour for example gives you the chance to visit the Cambazli church and the Olba (aqueduct.) Uzuncaburc was given city status and renamed to Diocaesarea in 72 AD and in the area you can visit the the Zeus Olbios temple, amfitheater, Tyche temple, city- and parade port, Hellenistic Tower. In the end of the day you will return to your hotel via Isikkale and Karakabakli, 2 old roman establishments.

Back to nature with a bird tour! The Bird Paraidid Tour for example is great fun if you love the flying inhabitants of Mersin Cesmeli and its surroundings. One tip is to go with the early tour that starts at 7 am already to make sure all birds are still in the mood to show of their beauty. The walk takes about 4 hours and lunch is included. Obviously it is smart to wear good shoes and it is also advised to bring water as there are no places to buy drinks during the walk. After the walk a lunch is included.

Perhaps by now you need a day to rest and enjoy a day at the pool of the apartment complex. But there are more tours and excursions available around Mersin and they’re too good to pass. The Alahan Convent Tour could be your next excursion. A visit to the Frederick Barbarossa Monument at the Göksu river for example is an excellent option, followed by a stop at the bridge over the Göksu to appreciate the beautiful panorama. This is a great place to take some wonderful pictures. (with or without you in the foreground) The day isn’t over at this time. Next on the program is a lunch in the city Mut, which is famous for its mosque from the time of the Seldjoeken and the Pasha tombe. Then you get the chance to visit a park that contains trees of over 300 years old. The day ends with a visit to a typical Turkish herbs and spices market.
 
The ruins of Basilicas (Kanli Divane) from Hellenistic, Roman and Byzantine periods can be visited with the Kanli Divane Tour, which starts at 9 am. Also on the program is Ayas a ruin of an amphitheatre. Korykos, the vestiges of what in former days was the village of Kizkalesi is next on the program followed by a lunch in the same village.

Let’s go on with a relaxing Pick nick Tour. There are 2 locations for this pick nick, the Kayacik Valley and Akyar. The choice of which of these 2 locations to go to, depends mostly on the weather. After the pick nick the rest of the day can be enjoyed at the apartment complex, which by now should be your favorite resting place.

Are you still up for more walking and fun?

Then lets continue with a mountain walking tour through some mountain villages and by the Göksu river. You will get to do a firm walk and visit some authentic Turkisch mountain villages and get a taste of the rural and country life of Turkey. The tour ends with a typical Turkish rural meal in one of the villages.

Last but not least, for the real hunters out there, we can on a Boar Hunt Tour in the woods of Silifke. The tour is more expensive, but is guided by an experienced hunter and guns and ammunition are provided. You will have to walk a lot during this tour though, most likely because the boars don’t agree much with your plans for that day.

Mersin Cesmeli and its surroundings are an exiting, adventurous place to spend your vacation. The numerous excursions and activities available keep every active vacationer busy, but at the same time the relaxation seeker can have just as much fun in the apartment complex.


