Title: 
Expats Discover How to Retire To Thailand

Word Count:
480

Summary:
Discover how men can retire to a tropical country where their finances go a long way, the nightlife rules and your ability to enjoy life will be born again.


Keywords:
bangkok nightlife, pattaya nightlife, visa run, expat


Article Body:
For men looking to get more out of life…

I have 3 questions for you:
1. Have you ever wanted to retire to a sunny tropical climate?
2. Are you disenfranchised with the way things are going in your society and culture?
3. Do you long to become happy again?

If you answered yes to any of the above questions, you may need to discover foreign lands. Those lands that completely break the norm and boundaries of your current culture.

I did just such a thing when I visited Thailand for the first time, and I’ve been going back ever since. I fell in love with the country so much that I plan to retire there early, and spend the rest of my life as an expat.

Why do I want to do so, here are several reasons:
1.	I love warm tropical climates
2.	An abundance of single appreciative women
3.	I need a country where my money can go a long way
4.	I always wanted to live on the beach
5.	It seems as though I no longer fit in

Finances

One of the main things to consider when planning such a move is finance. Although your dollars may go much further in Thailand, to under-finance your new life will be disastrous. You must look at the big picture. Once over there, your options to create income will be minimal…so you must save! 10 to 20 grand is not going to do it for you.

Most Popular Areas for Expats In Thailand

Two of the most popular areas for expats in Thailand are Bangkok and Pattaya. Bangkok is an incredibly large city with all those goes along with a huge metropolis:
1.	Shopping
2.	Dining
3.	Arts
4.	Nightlife

Pattaya is a beach resort area huge into the nightlife. Pattaya first started out as an “R and R” spot for American soldiers during the Vietnam War and has been going strong ever since.

You don’t have to limit yourself to these two areas, but first time expats are usually most comfortable in Bangkok or Pattaya due to the large expat communities.

Visa Runs

Once in Thailand, there is also the subject of remaining there legally. Most vacationers are granted a 30-day visa. When this is nearing an end, you must leave the country and re-enter so you are granted a new 30-day visa. This is a practice that will continue with your tenure in Thailand, unless you do the paperwork with the Thai government for a retirement visa. 

Most expats choose to go on visa runs. In fact there are casinos built right on the Cambodian border for just this purpose.

If this sounds like a life you may be interested in, I caution you to read and research as much as you possibly can. You want to talk to as may expats as possible and get opinions on both sides.

Yours for more out of life,
Pattaya Joe


