Title: 
Experience Paradise With Your Bahamas Getaway

Word Count:
723

Summary:
Are you planning to experience your honeymoon on an island where romance is in the air? Are you arranging a family reunion where you could spend quality time with your loved ones? Are you searching for an island to escape with your friends during the summer vacation?

Here’s a great way to spend your precious occasions. Try the Bahamas getaway and you’ll be able to experience the time of your life.

Everyone deserves a Bahamas getaway. And here’s the proof:

* Geographi...


Keywords:
vacation getaway,romantic getaway,weekend getaway,bahamas getaway


Article Body:
Are you planning to experience your honeymoon on an island where romance is in the air? Are you arranging a family reunion where you could spend quality time with your loved ones? Are you searching for an island to escape with your friends during the summer vacation?

Here’s a great way to spend your precious occasions. Try the Bahamas getaway and you’ll be able to experience the time of your life.

Everyone deserves a Bahamas getaway. And here’s the proof:

* Geographical: Bahamas is a country where there are 700 different islands. Plus, each of these islands has something unique to offer your island vacation. There are islands which would make you think you’re in Las Vegas with the bright lights and the line of casinos. There are islands with white sand that stretches to the southeast of the Florida coast. There are islands for the pleasure of the fisherman alone. There are islands with a club setting where you can enjoy golfing and relaxing by the pool. There are islands that could provide you with all your city needs – the shopping mall, night clubs, and restaurants. It is the third largest barrier reef in the world.

*Historical: For you to taste the culture of the Bahamians, you should attend the Junkanoo Festival. During the days when they were enslaved by the West Indies, the Bahamian slaves were given a day to celebrate. From there, the festival became a yearly event in honor of their freedom. This festival is a parade of at least a thousand locals dressed in colorful costumes dancing to the beat of the drums and whistles.

On the 65th year of their Queen Victoria’s reign, the slaves were forced to use axes to make a 102 feet staircase. This is the most visited attraction in the Bahamas is the Queen’s Staircase. With what the name says, you have to climb 65 limestone steps to reach Bennett’s hill.

There are many forts located at the Bahamas, but the Fort Charlotte is the most visited of all. The visitors are take interest in this fort because it is the largest in the country. It has dungeons and battle marks all around the fort, although it has been said that there was no shot fired in this fort.

Surely, history buffs would consider these islands as an ideal getaway.

* Environmental: The Bahamas is surrounded with pine trees and flourishing plantations. The country has limestone caves located in all of its 700 islands. There are fishing flats available to ensure the laws in fishing are abided. And lastly, the Bahamas ranks third in the world’s largest barrier reef. The Bahamas is a getaway for people who want to enjoy the nature surrounding the island.

* Cultural: Bahamians are people who handle their money by doing business. They are born nature-lovers. Because of this, many of the Bahamians contribute in making their country a place to for visitors to getaway.

The food in the Bahamas is simply irresistible. The famous foods in the Bahamas are seafood. Majority of the local restaurants in the cities serve boiled, baked stewed fish of all kinds. The Bahamian cuisine is a perfect getaway for people who love spicy foods and maintain a fish diet.

In 1942, when the sponge industry fell, the Bahamian women started designing dried palms in making baskets, dolls, and baskets. These became the most sought out souvenir visitors buy from the vendors.

* Adventure: You could choose with a number of sports provided in the island. These sports include fishing on the shoreline, kayaking on an environment full of fishes and birds, surfing through the undiscovered parts of the islands, beachcombing a large collection of seashells, snorkeling through the clear reefs, discovering the caves and ruins; and hiking through spectacular cliffs.

The Bahamas getaway is perfect for people who are celebrating their honeymoon. It is also an amazing place to mark their vows as a married couple. It could be also spent with friends and family who wish to experience an island getaway.

It’s easy to get into the Bahamas paradise. A U.S. citizen should just be able to provide a passport, their official birth certificate, a citizenship certificate, and their two-way ticket. After presenting this, you could now start and explore the wonders of the country and enjoy your Bahamas getaway.


