Title: 
Experience Tibet

Word Count:
358

Summary:
Visit a place where history and nature blend with a spiritual presence found in no other land in the world. Come travel to Tibet!


Keywords:
Tibet, Tibet travel, China travel


Article Body:
A land that conjures up images of mountains and temples. A place whos mystique is unmatched by any other around the world. A people who can bring a smile to any visitor`s face. 

These all can be found in the farthest corner of China, atop the roof of the world-Tibet. Yes, Tibet is one of kind. No other place brings to mind such majestic scenary
or  spiritual splendor. This is a land that will expel any doubt to whether or not there is a supreme power. One can`t help but sense that there is something greater that exists, that could only be responsible for creating such a magnificent place.

Tibet is a land of incredible points of interest. Besides home to the world`s tallest mountain, it boasts the world`s deepest canyon, the highest elevated river, as well as the highest elevated roads and airports. Yes, the highest elevated railroad can also be found in Tibet.  

Tibet is a vast land, subsequently allowing visitors to usually only view a small piece of what it has to offer during one visit. Among the many attractions, the famous Potala Palace, Jokhang Monastery, Barkhor Street, Nam Co and Basum Co are just several must see spots.

There are, however, many other gems the savy tourist should not go without seeing as well. Some of these include the Guge Kingdom Ruins and the Tombs of Tibetan Kings. Yet, if one did not spend any time seeing Tibet`s many historic attractions, one can gain enough satisfaction soley enjoying the splendid natural landscapes.  

While you stay in Tibet, make sure you try the local foods-quite different than typical Chinese cuisine-but just as delicious. Also, get to know the local people. Many are friendly, and will fill your heart with warmth.

 A trip to Tibet will be like no other place you have visited. Be rest assured you will experience things you thought you could have only dreamed of, and be ready for a change in how you perceive life afterwards. Tibet is that incredible. But, don`t take my word for it-come travel to Tibet and experience it for yourself.


