Title: 
Experience Australia east to west coast: Sydney, Gold Coast, Perth

Word Count:
724

Summary:
For a great adventure, travel Australia from coast to coast and see both sides of the big country. Sydney offers a cosmopolitan lifestyle, the Gold Coast is surfers paradise and Perth has a modern city surrounded by natural countryside. As you travel from east to west, experience the unique feeling of each state.


Keywords:
Australia, Hotels, Accommodation, Cheap, Sydney, Gold Coast, Perth


Article Body:
Sydney offers a cosmopolitan lifestyle, the Gold Coast is surfers paradise and Perth has a modern city surrounded by natural countryside. As you travel from east to west, experience the unique feeling of each state.
Sydney: the stunning city on water
Sydney has so much to offer from the breathtaking Blue Mountains to popular hang out Bondi Beach. Sydney city centre is cosmopolitan and has many attractions including the Opera House and Harbour Bridge. This is one of the most attractive cities in the world.
Transport: how to get there and around:
There are direct flights to Sydney from many international destinations. Sydney airport is serviced by 40 airlines including British Airways, Qantas and Virgin. 
Once in the city you can enjoy getting around on the easy to navigate bus and rail system. If you prefer to drive, it is cost effective to hire a car, the roads are clearly signed. 
Weather: the seasons of Sydney
The climate in Sydney is mild throughout the year. The seasons are: Summer December to February, Autumn March to May, Winter June to August and Spring March to May. 
The seasons are opposite to the northern hemisphere making Sydney a great get away from the cold weather.
Accommodation: : Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of  the best information on the cost, range and location of Sydney accommodation.
Attractions & Events: best attractions in Sydney
•	The Annual Road Bash from the Variety Club starts on the 5 August 2007 from Garden Island. 
•	Lyric Theatre at Darling Harbour is showing the iconic Musical Priscilla the Queen of the Desert
•	Winter season begins at The Sydney Opera House see www.sydneyoperahouse.com for more information. 
•	For equestrian lovers, there is an amazing show at the Horseworld Stadium every weekend called El Caballo Blanco, with choreographed horses.
Gold coast: laidback surfers paradise
The Gold Coast welcomes visitors looking for a relaxing family holiday and groups of friends looking for more action and adventure. 
To get to the Gold Coast, the nearest international airport is Brisbane which is 80kms to the north, this airport has daily international flights from around the world. If you are travelling within Australia there is a domestic airport at the Gold Coast itself. From here you can hop on a train, bus taxi or hire a car. 
Known as Australia’s playground the Gold Coast has more to offer than stunning beaches. The tropical rainforests nearby offers an alternative view of the area as well as the city skyline. Not forgetting the action packed days that can be spent visiting the theme parks including Wet ‘N’ Wild, Dreamworld, Steve Irwin’s Zoo, Sea World and more. 
For sports fans, you shouldn’t miss the Gold Coast Indy which takes over the city streets for 4 days during October.
Hotels in Gold Coast vary in style and price, there is always plenty available to chose from for all tastes. With guaranteed sunshine 300 days a year, you can’t afford not to visit. 
Perth: the west at its best
Perth has the best of both worlds – the city is centre is a hive of activity and attractions, with beaches and countryside all around. Perth centre has rivers and parks which make the city and attractive place to visit.
The whole West Coast of Australia is served by Perth’s International Airport. Domestic flights are recommended from the east to west coast due to the vast distance between the 2 sides of this continent. The airport and city can be navigated by shuttle bus, taxi and hire car. The reliable train system can also take you to nearby cities like Fremantle. If you would like a guided tour, there are plenty of Tour Buses to show the attractions of the area. Hotels in Perth cater for the luxury high end visitor as well as the low budget backpacker.
The region offers miles of surfing coastline and secluded beaches to explore. The water provides more attractions with regular sightings of Dolphins and Whales and some fabulous reef snorkelling. If you are partial to a drop of wine, you must take  a trip to the Margaret River region with over 60 wineries.
The mild climate makes Perth an attractive destination all year round. During the summer the temperature is 29 to 32 Celsius, great for the beach and surf. The winter is around 18 Celsius suitable for an outdoor BBQ.


