Title: 
Fall into Colorado for a Picture-Perfect Autumn View

Word Count:
297

Summary:
From mid-September to mid-October, the fall foliage in Colorado paints the Rocky Mountain landscape with brilliant golden hues. 

From biking in the mountains to viewing the vibrant fall colors from a hot air balloon, Colorado offers many opportunities for you and your family to take in the scenery.


Keywords:
Fall into Colorado for a Picture-Perfect Autumn View


Article Body:
From mid-September to mid-October, the fall foliage in Colorado paints the Rocky Mountain landscape with brilliant golden hues. 

From biking in the mountains to viewing the vibrant fall colors from a hot air balloon, Colorado offers many opportunities for you and your family to take in the scenery. 

The Pikes Peak Cog Railway (www.cograilway.com) in Manitou Springs, for example, is the highest railroad in the country. This mountain train transports passengers to the 14,110-foot summit of Pikes Peak. Or you can climb aboard the Durango & Silverton Narrow Gauge Railroad (www.durangotrain.com) in southwest Colorado. The train's Fall Photo Special tour highlights premier southwestern spots for viewing fall foliage. 

For more outdoor fun, lace up your hiking boots and choose from 350 miles of trails in Rocky Mountain National Park (www.rockymountainnationalpark.com). You also can visit Boulder (www.bouldercoloradousa.com), where abundant hiking trails overlook the city.

In Grand County (www.grandcounty.com), you can trade your boots for bikes and take a spin under canopies of bright yellow aspens and through lush river valleys offering more than 600 miles of mapped trails.

You can saddle up and let horses lead the way in Telluride (www.visittelluride.com). The nearby San Juan Mountains create a spectacular backdrop for a guided tour.

For a more adventurous ride, take the ATV Historical Color Tour (www.coloradoatvtour.org) in Buena Vista. You can cross the Continental Divide and discover fake gold nuggets on trails leading through old mining sites and ghost towns. For more of a thrill, you can drive through rugged canyons.

Experience the height of autumn adventure in a hot air balloon. Get a "Rocky Mountain high" with incredible views over northwest Colorado at 

Colorado Rocky Ballooning (www.coloradoballoonrides.com) in Dillon. Or take off on the Grand Adventures Balloon Tours (www.grandadventureballoon.com) in Winter Park, where you can enjoy a champagne toast before liftoff.


