Title: 
Family Getaways For A Little Time Together

Word Count:
464

Summary:
The bigger your family, the harder it is to find time to spend with each other. Family  getaways are one way to carve out some time in that hectic schedule.


Keywords:
family, son, daughter, dad, mother, catskills, new york, adirondack, dells, parenting, trip


Article Body:
The bigger your family, the harder it is to find time to spend with each other. Family  getaways are one way to carve out some time in that hectic schedule. 

Family Getaways For A Little Time Together

If you have a family, you know how hard it is to schedule a trip. Everyone in the family has a different idea on where to go, and a different schedule to work around. The kids might have sports events and music lessons, while Mom and Dad have a job to go to. If a long trip isn’t in the cards for your clan, family getaways can be a great solution to taking a trip together.

There are many different family getaways that can be fun and entertaining to the entire group. Depending on your area of the country and the time of year, you can visit such diverse places as the Catskills in upstate New York or the Wisconsin Dells. Many resorts and hotels offer packages to families looking for a short stay, and with the number of different activities available in these areas, there will be plenty to fill up your time.

If you choose to stay in the Catskills, a picturesque area of New York State that is in the Adirondack Mountain range, you will have a lot to see and do. This area was made famous by people from New York City, who flocked here in the 1950s and 1960s to stay in the relative wilderness and calm of the Catskill area. If you enjoy hiking, fishing, boating, swimming and just plain relaxing, this area is for you. The Rocking Horse Ranch, located in New Paltz, New York, offers families horseback riding, outdoor activities such as hiking, swimming and much more. This resort is all-inclusive, so everything comes with one price including activities and food.

Living in the Midwest United States might mean a trip to New York is out of the question, but that doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy the beautiful Wisconsin Dells. Known as the home of the indoor waterpark, this area has the most indoor waterparks in the world. The Great Wolf Lodge, in Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin, has over 70000 square feet of indoor waterslides for your enjoyment. It is also home to a 20,000 square foot “live video game adventure” known as Wiley’s Woods. Many other nearby water and amusement parks make this destination a kid’s paradise if you have younger ones.

Family getaways may not be as long as the week trips of past generations, but there is still a lot you can see and do in a short time. Choose a resort area that has much to do in a small area, and spend your  together, enjoying all that your getaway has to offer.


