Title: 
Florida – The Perfect Holiday for the Kids

Word Count:
526

Summary:
A convenient location, supervised children’s programs, a swimming pool, and an on-site restaurant are some of the top features parents look for when booking a kids holiday.


Keywords:
Orlanso, holiday, accomodation, kids


Article Body:
A convenient location, supervised children’s programs, a swimming pool, and an on-site restaurant are some of the top features parents look for when booking a kids holiday. 
As the USA’s top destination for families, Florida takes its responsibility seriously – creating fun for the whole family. 

A Florida holiday is heaven with outstanding kids’ programs and facilities. Kids’ programs have made a major mark on the standards of top Florida resorts during the past few decades. Many resorts design activities to give parents time with their kids and time alone as a couple. Florida resorts have worthy kids programs, along with accommodations that feature family friendly amenities.

Florida has long held the title of "Most Kid Friendly Holiday Destination" due to an abundance of theme parks and miles of sandy beaches. Ranging from the large theme parks around Orlando, to nature oriented kid programs in the Everglades, there is so much to see and do that the children will love!

There’s always the Disney option. Walt Disney World in the Orlando area is much more than the Magic Kingdom, the first of the Disney theme parks. The resort encompasses three other parks – Epcot, Disney-MGM Studios and Animal Kingdom – as well as hotels (both luxury and affordable), campgrounds, water parks, golf courses, shopping centre, dining and entertainment district. 

But if you don’t want a theme park on land, head to the high seas. Disney cruises are especially well-suited for families travelling with young children. Without being overpowering to parents, it is just enough for the kids to be at ease.

Florida is a magnet for families, with its double whammy of theme parks and popular beaches; but beyond the best-known spots, other great Florida family holidays await. The legendary Everglades are a wonderful place to visit, and can easily include education-as-fun as kids learn about this unique ecosystem.

The best kids holiday might be a tried-and-true theme park destinations, like Orlando; as well as educational destinations, like Washington DC with its wealth of free museums; or nature’s classroom, the Grand Canyon and other national parks.

In Orlando, it's all about the kids. Hotels, theme parks, restaurants, and attractions abound for the young - and the young at heart. Most visitors are familiar with Disney World, Universal Studios and SeaWorld, but in this round-up of smaller attractions, some might discover venues that are often more affordable and convenient than their mega-theme park counterparts, making it easy for families to slip in and out for half-day or full-day visits.

Aside from water parks and Disney-centered Orlando, Florida has many other attractions that children of all ages will enjoy. Older children and teenagers can make a stop in Tampa for Busch Gardens Tampa Bay. This park is full of wild roller coasters, exciting water rides, and shows. The draw for younger children, however, is the zoo-like experience with their exotic animals. The Kennedy Space Center is a way for children and adults to have fun while learning about the past, present, and future of space exploration. At Crystal River and Homosassa between November and March kids can swim with the manatees and learn about these prehistoric creatures.


