Title: 
For An Adventure Of A Lifetime Travel Alaska

Word Count:
830

Summary:
Are you like John Locke of the TV series Lost and simply dying for an adventure? Or perhpaps you're simply bored to death and you want to experience more of life. Have no fear because there's no need to travel half-way across the globe to taste adventure in the wilds of Africa or the rainforests of South America. Why should you when you've got Alaska. Alaska... the 49th state and fondly known as the Land of the Midnight Sun and The Last Frontier. 

Most people believe that ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Are you like John Locke of the TV series Lost and simply dying for an adventure? Or perhpaps you're simply bored to death and you want to experience more of life. Have no fear because there's no need to travel half-way across the globe to taste adventure in the wilds of Africa or the rainforests of South America. Why should you when you've got Alaska. Alaska... the 49th state and fondly known as the Land of the Midnight Sun and The Last Frontier. 

Most people believe that Alaska, a name which comes from an Aleut word meaning "land that's not an island" is simply tundra in the middle of nowhere because of it's distance from the lower 48 states and because most of the stories you hear about it are usually related to the cold and snow and so-called vast, desolate, open spaces. But you thought wrong. 

Alaska - the largest state (by land mass) is also one of the least populated - is a land that combines the beautiful snowy scenery of the Alps with the challenge of an adventure trip to the Congo. 

Don't believe me? 

That's okay because I've got proof. 

River Fishing 
When someone mentions Alaska, people usually visualize a land of ice and frozen desert. So it's a bit hard to imagine people being able to fish in such a place. But like I mentioned earlier, Alaska is a place filled with adventure, a place well worth traveling to. 

For your Alaska fishing adventure, you can try your luck at hooking any of a variety of prized fish like: Silver Salmon in Resurrection Bay during August and September, the King Salmon of the Lower Kenai River from May to July or Red (Sockeye) Salmon, Dolly Varden and Rainbow Trout in the Upper Kenai River. 

Rafting 
Yes, you can raft to your hearts' content and pretend you're a lone wanderer having an adventure in the midst of the vast array of Alaskan wildlife. Travel and encounter the many natural wonders of Alaska. Listen to the stories of the natives. Catch a glimpse of moose and bald eagles as you hold on for dear life while traversing the rapids of Kenai River Canyon - a trip that is highly recommended and one that you don't want to miss. 

Backpacking 
This is an adventure you must grab because there's virtually nothing that compares to backpacking in Alaska. You can of course choose your own adventure travel destination: Brooks Range, Artic Refuge, Talkeetna Mountains, and Wrangell-St. Elias to name just a few. 

Sea Kayaking 
This not so common adventure is one that only traveling to Alaska can bestow upon you. This is not for the feint of heart and make sure, that you don't attempt this alone. 

Expeditions to Walrus Island 
So you haven't seen any of those furry adorable creatures up close? Find yourself aching for more of a marine adventure rather than a landlocked one? Or perhaps you're content to simply watch. Have no fear because Alaska's Walrus Island has it all. You can view walrus, other marine mammals and rare bird species from the comfortable deck of a cruising yacht. But if you want a bit more of a challenge, you can take a hiking trip and see more of the Alaskan wildlife. 

Dog Sledding 
This is probably the most popular sport in Alaska and an adventure worth telling your grandchildren, great grandchildren, friends, barber or whoever will listen. If you so choose, you can simply watch the dog sled races or try it out yourself by mushing your own team. The Siberian huskies, are highly trained so there's no need to worry about your safety. Plus, if you have the time, you can also visit the renowned author, husky owner and Alaskan original Mary Shields. 

Fjord Exploration 
If you've ever dreamed of experiencing the sheer scale of an honest-to-goodness glacier that the pages of a book or movie screen just can't convey then Alaska is the place to be? Unless, of course you prefer Greenland or Iceland for your icy adventure. I think not... and just another of many reasons why we should be thankful for the great State of Alaska. 

So... are you now convinced that traveling to Alaska is an adventure that you must not miss? I sure hope so because if you're not - what's wrong with you. Just kidding, however before making reservations be sure you've got everything you need like clothes for wide range of temperatures and a comfortable pair of hiking boots. 

And clearly... compare the available travel packages being offered by the travel agencies that cater to Alaska or you can make your own travel itinerary and then simply hire a guide to assist you along the way. A great place to start planning your trip is Alaska - The Last Frontier. A website dedicated to being a complete resource on Alaska.


