Title: 
France – Bordeaux and St. Tropez

Word Count:
333

Summary:
France and Paris, Paris and France. You’ll have a great time exploring Paris, but you’ll miss places like Bordeaux and St. Tropez if you don’t get out of the city.


Keywords:
france, paris, bordeaux, st. tropez, st tropez, wine, matisse, signac, Chateau Mouton-Rothschild


Article Body:
France and Paris, Paris and France. You’ll have a great time exploring Paris, but you’ll miss places like Bordeaux and St. Tropez if you don’t get out of the city. 

Bordeaux

Bordeaux is both a city and the center of the wine region in France. As a city, Bordeaux is surprisingly bereft of things to see. One can find unique statutes, fountains and the like, but there isn’t really a particular location to mark of on your, “I saw that” list. The city is, however, a good place to relax, drink and eat. For relaxation, you can put around this low key town and take in food at the outdoor cafes in the Place de la Comedie. The specialty food of the region are canellas, which are very good. If you’re with the wine and cheese crowd, Bordeaux is going to seem much more exciting. The surrounding region produces wine by the mega cask loads and you can visit locations such as Chateau Mouton-Rothschild to smell and taste the grapes. Moderation is suggested as you want to avoid the grapes of wrath the next morning!

St. Tropez

St. Tropez has gone through roughly three stages in its history. Originally, the town was a little fishing village no different than others dotting the coast of France. At some point, however, it became the place to be for artist who had given up on Paris. No less than the painters Matisse, Signac and Seurat lived and worked in the town. Fortunately or unfortunately, those times have passed. While artist still populate the town, St. Tropez is now the hangout of celebrities and the wealthy. While still a beautiful location, the over the top glitz of St. Tropez is a bit much. 

Once you get out of Paris, your options are wide open when it comes to exploring France. Bordeaux is definitely worth a visit while St. Tropez tends to be a take it or leave it destination. I left it.


