Title: 
Free travel guide of Cagliari in Italy

Word Count:
456

Summary:
Flashbooking is becoming a recognized source of information and services for who loves creating a trip by him/herself and book bed nights securely online, this issue: free travel guide of Cagliari city of Italy


Keywords:
travel,guide,cagliari,sardinia,italy,free,hotel,bandb


Article Body:
Cagliari is the capital of the island of Sardinia, a region of Italy.

Cagliari is renown for its open and friendly international people, art museums and Art Galleries, the sea, the movida and cheap lodgings, classic itineraries and a lot more to make a visit worth wise.

Cagliari's Sardinian name Casteddu literally means the castle.

In general, Flashbooking guides have been written for giving the essential information about the most visited cities in the world and in particular for any traveller or first-time visitor.

It has about 160,000 inhabitants, or about 350,000 including the suburbs.

For a short visit, a week-end, a city break, these free pocket guides are useful printable and downloadable tools available online.

Cagliari has some peculiar gastronomic traditions. Many dishes are based on the wide variety of fish and sea food available, for example, burrida. 

With the monthly newsletter, Flashbooking puts at travellers, students, volunteers free disposal some useful pocket travel guides of major European cities: the Amsterdam City guide, the London City guide, the Prague City guide, the Paris City guide, the Rome City guide, the Florence City guide, and the freshly issued Naples City guide!! For the Cagliari travel guide Flashbooking staff efforts concentrate on making it simple to read dividing the Cagliari centre in different districts with their relevant amenities. 

Although it is possible to trace influences from Spanish gastronomy, Cagliaritanian food has a distintctive and unique character.

Flashbooking cheap lodging solutions are all available for online bookings and divided by Countries. Travellers have free access to the updated list of Europe hostels and budget hotels, North and South America hostels, Caribbean and Central America hostels as well as for Asia cheap accommodations, Oceania youth hostels and Africa hostels.

Very good wines are also part of Cagliaritanians' dinners: excellent wines are in fact produced in the nearby vineyards of the Campidano plain.

In particular Flashbooking provides a large selection of cheap or low cost accommodation offers in Cagliari where there are plenty of low cost solutions for backpackers in budget youth hostels, Bed and Breakfast, family run guesthouses, cheap hotel deals.

See Flashbooking database of selected accommodations worldwide and help us enlarging the hostel offer by reporting the contacts of some accommodations, lodgings, BandB, youth hostels and budget small hotels where you personally stayed. In fact, Flashbooking policy tends to privilege small and family-run hotels in order to promote an alternative tourism respectful of cultures and different societies.

Flashbooking is becoming a recognized source of information and services for who loves creating a trip by him/herself and book bed nights securely online. 

Flashbooking is a growing youth hostels and hotels directory specializing in budget accommodation for independent travellers, students, backpackers, families and all the ones that travel on a pocket.


