Title: 
Gadsden Alabama

Word Count:
425

Summary:
If you are looking for a great place to visit or even to move to, check out Gadsden, Alabama.


Keywords:
Gasdsden, Gadsden Alabama, Gasden


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Patrick Cash

Are you looking for a great place to retire to, a great place to live or heck, maybe just a really neat place to visit?

Gadsden Alabama is just such a place.

One of the things that makes Gadsden so attractive is the low cost of living and it’s locality to bigger cities.

So just where is Gadsden? We’re located in Northeast Alabama in Etowah county. From Birmingham, we’re less than an hour’s drive north on I-59. From Atlanta, we’re only two or so hours away. From Chattanooga we’re only 1½ hours away.

Gadsden has a mild climate, great school systems (The Gadsden city school system is completing a new large state of the art high school) , churches, restaurants, theatre, shopping and more.

What’s there to do here? Depending on what time of the year it is, you may find any number of things going on for you to watch or get involved with such as:

Fishing tournaments being held on the Coosa river. (There are dozens of fishing tournaments held here each year by various groups.)

The world’s longest yard sale. (a 93 mile fantastic yard sale adventure from Gadsden, Alabama to Chattanooga, Tennessee)

Listening to Bluegrass at the Foggy Hollow Bluegrass Gatherin’?

Sit at the docks watching the drag boat races (The Southern Thunder National Drag Boat Races are held here)

Watch kids feed the fish while you enjoy some of the best catfish you’ve ever had while eating at Top O’ The River.

Take a picnic lunch up to Noccalula falls and spend the day. (Noccalula falls has just undergone a renovation and is now back open better than ever)

Play tennis at the Gadsden sports complex.

Go to a flea market. (There are two large ones to choose from. One held on Saturday at Collinsville and one held on Sunday at mountaintop off 278)

Attend Riverfest to watch world famous musicians perform. (each year Gadsden attracts some big name country and rock performers to it’s stages set up next to the Coosa river for a 3 day event)

Play golf at one of the many top rated courses in the area. (Gadsden has golf courses ranked in the to 100 places to play in the United States)

Nascar racing (Gadsden is only 20 minutes from the Talladega Speedway)

Well, I think you probably get the idea. There’s always something going on here for all age groups and interests.

We’ve love to have you come by for a while and maybe even stay.


