Title: 
Germany: A unique Experience

Word Count:
422

Summary:
I hear many people talking about Germany, both on the Internet and in person, so I thought I would try to provide some insight on how Germany really is from the point of view of an American Soldier (Me) who has lived here for over four years. Whether you are planning a trip to Germany or you are just curious about the beautiful country, here is some information that I think will be useful to you.


Keywords:
germany, travel, tourism, europe, vacation, ski, ski resorts, beer, food, german castles


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Joshua Spaulding

To start I would like to say that most people are right, Germany is a GREAT place to visit. I heard on the radio the other day that over 4 million Americans visited Germany in 2005 and to be honest it did not surprise me at all. With so many beautiful things to see and experience who wouldn’t be interested?

Lets start off with the obvious attractions: Castles, German Beer and German Food.

Castles: Arguably the number one attraction of Germany. Castles are one of Germanys most historic prized possessions. With at least one Castle in every single decent sized town in Germany, you will always have a place to visit no matter where your travels in Germany take you. Most of these Castles have nice restaurants inside where you are given information on the historic value of the establishment, not to mention great food in my experience.

German Beer: Many say that German beer is the best in the world, because of this many German breweries are hesitant to give up their ‘tricks of the trade’ many saying ‘its in the water’. Whether this is true or not Germany definitely has a reputation for providing delicious preservative free beer. The German government actually mandates that only a few main ingredients are to be added to the beer and no preservatives can be added, BY LAW.

German Food: I am sure that you all have either heard about or tried some of the typical German dishes, i.e. Schnitzel, Wursts (German sausage) and Spatzle, but what you may not have tried are some of the ‘not so traditional’ but common dishes in Germany. If you are planning a trip to Germany I recommend going to any German restaurant and ordering the house special. Most restaurants, just like in the U.S., have a house special that is different from restaurant to restaurant and will usually be very delicious.

Oktoberfest: The biggest beer party in the world. The oktoberfest attracts millions of people from all nationalities every year. In more recent years the Oktoberfest has attracted more tourists than Germans. If you do plan to visit this incredible party be sure educate yourself on the procedures. Some things you might notice is that it can be very difficult to actually get a beer as the beer tents are known to be packed from morning to night. You may want to buy a mug of authentic oktoberfest beer just for the experience and bring your own for the rest of the day.


