Title: 
Get A Taste Of Ibiza Closer To Home At Bournemouth

Word Count:
367

Summary:
Fancy a beach stag weekend in an Ibiza-like atmosphere that’s close to home? In this case, Bournemouth in Dorsett is the closest to your preference. What is it that makes Bournemouth so unique? While Bournemouth was previously branded as a blue-rinse paradise, this destination is currently populated with bars and clubs, all located within close proximity and thus turning this city to popular stag weekend destination. 

However, stag weekends in Bournemouth are not all about...


Keywords:
stag weekend, bachelor party, stag night, stag party, Bournemouth stag party, chillisauce, tour oper


Article Body:
Fancy a beach stag weekend in an Ibiza-like atmosphere that’s close to home? In this case, Bournemouth in Dorsett is the closest to your preference. What is it that makes Bournemouth so unique? While Bournemouth was previously branded as a blue-rinse paradise, this destination is currently populated with bars and clubs, all located within close proximity and thus turning this city to popular stag weekend destination. 

However, stag weekends in Bournemouth are not all about night activities. There are lots to do in the daytime here as well. In fact, Bournemouth is also a popular team building event destination, with group packages available just for this purpose. For instance, activities such as the Mexican Railway and Ground Action Learning Tasks are some of the team building activities that can be organised by a corporate event organiser such as Chillisauce.

Other than that, your Bournemouth stag weekend will be short of exhausting as you are provided with a platter of daytime activities to choose from. Be a spy for a day as you enroll in the Spy School at Bournemouth. Learn how to use spy equipment, drive like a spy and more importantly, shoot like one! 

If this is not extreme enough for you, learn how to be a Hollywood stuntman instead. Discover how knock-out scenes are done through hands-on workshops, and learn the secrets of firing semi-automatic and automatic guns in a movie setting.

Do you long for an exhilarating time in the water? Your Bournemouth stag weekend will not be complete if you don’t try out the 3 ½ hour speedboat wakeboarding session across Poole Harbour. Show your stuff to the other lads as you are pulled by a 310hp Mastercraft, one of the fastest wakeboarding boats around. 

End your stag weekend days with a wholesome session of night partying at the various pubs and bars lining the streets of Bournemouth. If you are up for more exclusive evening activities, you can bring the stag to a Bournemouth casino and gamble away at the variety of Blackjack, Roulette and Stud Poker. Otherwise, opt for a cocktail making session with lessons conducted by experienced bartenders, as well as cocktail games that would be fun for the lads.


