Title: 
Getting Away From It All In Michigan

Word Count:
425

Summary:
Most people think of the beaches on the coast as the most popular getaway locations. In truth, getting away to beauty of Michigan is one of the more popular trips around.


Keywords:
michigan, beaches, lake huron, harbor country, penninsula, romantic, trip, family, vacation


Article Body:
Most people think of the beaches on the coast as the most popular getaway locations. In truth, getting away to beauty of Michigan is one of the more popular trips around.

Getting Away From It All In Michigan

Michigan, a state in the heart of the United States' Midwest, is a beautiful location. Full of lakes, rivers, mountains and other interesting geography, Michigan is a great place for those who love the great outdoors. Michigan gets all four seasons, and with its varying climate, there's sure to be a perfect time of year for your trip. 

One area of Michigan that is definitely worth investigating is Harbor Country. This area of the state, located alongside Lake Michigan on Route 94, is comprised of many different towns and vacation spots that are well-suited to water lovers. Just 75 miles from Chicago, Illinois, Harbor Country is the closest area for Michigan beaches and an easy trip for Chicagoans planning a Michigan vacation getaway. Whether you prefer sitting on the beach and relaxing or water sports and boating, Lake Michigan is a great place to do it all. Harbor Country also offers winery tours, antiquing, galleries, fine shops and more, all in an area that's welcoming to tourists. 

When you are looking for accommodations in Harbor Country, one place that is sure to please romantics and couples is the Garden Grove Bed and Breakfast in Union Pier, Michigan. This resort/bed and breakfast offers rooms that are close to the sugar-sand beaches of Harbor Country (less than a mile away) as well as being close to outlet shopping and even a casino. With four guest rooms and a newly redone carriage house available for your stay, as well as delicious daily breakfasts, you'll be sure to enjoy the friendly, family atmosphere.

If you are looking for more of a family-friendly spot for your trip, the Grand Beach Motel and Cabins in New Buffalo is perfect for you. This resort offers 14 motel-style rooms with a clean and inviting atmosphere, as well as log cabins. An outdoor heated pool and close proximity to the beach (less than three miles) make this an affordable and friendly spot to stay. Daily and weekly rates are available.

Michigan is the ideal state for your next vacation. Whether you enjoy beaches, hiking, shopping, art galleries, Michigan is home to all these and more. Choose summer for your lake getaway or winter for a trip to the mountains for skiing and fun. No matter when you choose to come to Michigan, you will be happy you did.


