Title: 
Getting Away To Charity Island

Word Count:
479

Summary:
Getting away to Charity Island offers you the chance to get in touch with nature while relaxing. Unlike other destinations, Charity Island is also a environmentally protected area.


Keywords:
travel, vacation, charity island, michigan, lodge, lodgings, rentals, hotel


Article Body:
Getting away to Charity Island offers you the chance to get in touch with nature while relaxing. Unlike other destinations, Charity Island is also a environmentally protected area. 

Getting Away To Charity Island 

Charity Island is actually two islands, Big and Little Charity Island, both of which are in the state of Michigan. It is located in the Saginaw Bay, which is part of Lake Huron contained inside the state. More than 80 percent of Charity Island is owned by the US Fish and Wildlife Service as part of its Michigan Islands National Wildlife Refuge. Also on the island is an old and beloved lighthouse, built in 1857 and used until a replacement was built in 1939. Choosing Charity Island as a destination can make your trip to Michigan special and unique, especially if you choose to stay on the islands.

While on Charity Island, you must be aware that you are in a protected environment. As such, there are some rules that need to be followed. There is no camping on the island, so you will need to make other arrangements for accommodations There are also no campfires, hunting, firearms, fireworks, pets or alcoholic beverages allowed on the island. All of these rules are for the safety of the wildlife refuge housed here, and you will need to be mindful of the law as you enjoy your time on the islands.

For accommodations on Big Charity Island, there is just one choice: Charity Island Lodge. This seasonal getaway lodging spot was built in 2003, and it is the only private lodging on the island besides the lighthouse keeper’s home. The lodge offers accommodations for six with a loft area and master bedroom for sleeping. A kitchen is provided stocked with utensils and other necessities, but you will need to bring many items with you; including food, water, linens and toiletries. Getting to Charity Island Lodge requires a boat; either your own or via ferry service that is available from June to September. Nightly rentals of the Charity Island Lodge are available.

Even if you don’t wish to stay on the island, you can still experience Charity Island on a day trip. Ferries to the island including a dinner cruise leave from Au Gres, Michigan all summer. The "Northstar" runs this trip, which includes a tour of the historic lighthouse and a buffet dinner at the Lighthouse keeper's Home. The trip to Big Charity Island takes about 75 minutes, and is full of breathtaking views and a spectacular sunset on the ride back.

Whether you choose to stay on Charity Island, or in nearby Au Gres or East Tawas, you can be sure that you will have a memorable and exciting family trip. While enjoying the historic lighthouse and beautiful wildlife refuge, be sure to keep in mind the laws of the land, and your entire party will have a great time.


