Title: 
Getting Away From It All In Northern Georgia

Word Count:
458

Summary:
As strange as it sounds, you can enjoy a taste of the south by going north. Specifically, northern Georgia offers a bevy of opportunities to get away from the hubbub of daily life.


Keywords:
georgia, travel, vacation, getaway, rentals, lodge, hiking, fishing, camping, blue ridge


Article Body:
As strange as it sounds, you can enjoy a taste of the south by going north. Specifically, northern Georgia offers a bevy of opportunities to get away from the hubbub of daily life.

Getting Away From It All In Northern Georgia

The beauty of the state of Georgia, located on the Southern East Coast of the United States, is world renowned. Georgia brings to mind stately magnolias, yummy peaches and the graciousness of the South all with a warm climate and a beautiful coastline. Northern Georgia is a great part of the state to take a trip to and can be a great time for the whole family.

Traveling to northern Georgia presents you with a boatload of options. This part of the state is well-known for the Blue Ridge Mountains, a mountain range that is home to peaks that rise above 4000 ft! The Blue Ridge, Georgia area also houses Lake Blue Ridge, the Toccoa River, and other small streams and bodies of water that are perfect for fishing, camping, hiking or just relaxing. Whitewater rafting is also popular in Blue Ridge, and horseback riding makes a perfect accompaniment to the areas scenic views.

Finding accommodations for your get away is easy, no matter what sort of lodgings you are in the mood to stay at. Blue Ridge has many different options and Tica Cabin Rentals is a great place to start. Here, you can get away from it all with a stay at the Skybound, a cabin built in 2003. This cabin accommodates six guests with two floors and dogs are even allowed on the property! There is no reason to leave your beloved pet behind if you choose to stay here, the whole family can be included. 

You can also choose to stay at Above the Clouds, a cabin that is great for groups of eight. This three story 2800 square foot vacation home is built for comfort, and the expansive views make it a great family location. (Sorry, no pets allowed at this cabin.) 

Both cabins offer many amenities, such as central air, a fully equipped kitchen, satellite TV, and even a Jacuzzi or hot tub! The cabins are also close to the town of Blue Ridge, which offers conveniences like a grocery store, post office, banks and a golf course.

Blue Ridge is a great destination in northern Georgia for a get away. Whether you are looking to get outdoors or just take a load off, this is the spot. Your whole family is going to enjoy the wilderness and the breathtaking surroundings. Remember, it is best to book at least a week at these cabins to enjoy all the area has to offer, although the minimum stay is two nights. Enjoy your stay in Georgia!


