Title: 
Goa Beaches

Word Count:
430

Summary:
A view of tourist attarcations including goa beaches, goa cruises, adventure sports, carnival, goa resorts and hotels.


Keywords:
goa beaches, goa india, goa tours, goa resorts, goa hotels, goa cruises


Article Body:
Goa, an endearing abode of scenic charm is a paradise, squeezed between the seas and the lush forested hills. Offering glistening sands, swaying coconut palms and ultra fresh seafood. Your Goa Tours will involve exploring sensuous beaches and historical forts that have kept the legacy of Portuguese alive. Travel to Goa, to explore the mystical charisma of the exotic abode. It is a promise that Goa will add some golden moments in your memorabilia.

The whole world knows Goa as the land of fun and frolic, land of mesmerizing beaches or the destination of most effervescent carnivals. However, one thing that instantly strikes you when you land in Goa is the culture. It is just the right blend of ethnic Indian Konkani and the reminiscent Potuguese. On one side there are vast expanses of beaches where the sun, sand and sea conjugate into crystal turquoise waters and on the other, there are lavish
Konkani mountains and wild greens. 

The Goa carnival, a three-day fest, had its birth in Goa during the era of King Momo.One can find a lot of excitement bubbling across Goa,in the month of February,as Goa is dressing up for the carnival festivities. This carnival is celebrated just before the Lent season(Lent is the period of fasting and penance in the Christian calendar and corresponding somewhat to the Mohammedan fast before Ramzan Id),that usually starts off on Sabado Gordo (Fat Saturday) and concludes on Shrove Tuesday (Fat Tuesday)-the eve of Ash Wednesday, which is the first day of the season of Lent.So one can say that this is basically celebrated before going into the rigrous fasting,the whole of Goa gets into the carnival mood or the party mood.

Not only human beings but the atmosphere of this place seems to be dancing to the tunes of joy.At the time of carnival the air of Goa is filled with perfume of happiness, the roads are jam-packed with fun and the hearts of the people in Goa is filled with nothing but enjoyment & happiness.These three days of fun & frolic are days of continuous music & dance.

Goa is the best place to be visited during the February carnival,to forget all the wordly affairs in the extravagant fun of this carnival & simply flow along in the river of happiness and fun.The memories gathered from the carnival of Goa will never come to an end but they will grow closer to your heart as the time passes away.

To know more about GOA  visit this site http://www.goa-beaches-india.com


