Title: 
Goa in November

Word Count:
392

Summary:
Some people consider Goa the most beautiful place in Asia or, even, in the whole world. Goa is the embodiment of the paradise on the Earth! Blue ocean, white beaches, palms and all the tropical exotic combined with the traces of Indian history make this place one the centres of the attraction in India.


Keywords:



Article Body:
Goa is the smallest state in India and the former Portugal colony. Portuguese merchants first landed in Goa in the 16th century and very soon colonised it. The Portuguese colony existed for approximately 450 years, until it became a part of India in 1961. Some people consider Goa the most beautiful place in Asia or, even, in the whole world. Goa is the embodiment of the paradise on the Earth! Blue ocean, white beaches, palms and all the tropical exotic combined with the traces of Indian history make this place one the centres of the attraction in India. From the October here begins high tourist season – monsoons have already finished but the heat is not as intolerable as in spring. So it’s just the time to visit this peace of heaven in one the biggest countries in the world! Goa is separated in two parts – Northern and Southern. People seeking for the entertainment prefer Northern Goa, and people looking for tranquility prefer the South of the state. The Northern Goa is famous for its clubs, its beach parties and its hippy communes. Many people, coming here prefer never come back to their homes. Here they found their happiness. The Southern part of Goa is mainly known for its outstanding beaches and prestigious hotels. This is the place for well-to-do western tourists. However there is a lot to see in Goa except beaches and discos. Its ancient history makes Goa quite an interesting place for those who love old ruins, ancient legends and entertaining excursions. Panaji is lovely state capital which has retained its Portuguese heritage in a lived-in, knockabout kind of way and exudes an aura more reminiscent of the Mediterranean than of India. 17th-century Braganza House is another example of the Portuguese-era glory. The 16th-century World Heritage-listed Vittala Temple is the magnificent highlight of the ruins. It is still unfinished, but the temple's incredible sculptural work is the masterpiece of Vijayanagar art. Overlooking the mouth of the Mandovi River, Fort Aguada occupies a magnificent position, its strategic value confirmed by the fact that it was never taken by force. This is a very popular spot for watching the sunset. The Bom Jesus Basilica holds the mortal remains of St Francis Xavier. The church is located in Old Goa, which was the capital of Goa in the early days of Portuguese rule.


