Title: 
Golfing In Costa Rica

Word Count:
437

Summary:
Few places in the world offer the amazing variety of natural beauty and environment Costa Rica can provide.

This has made it possible for Costa Rica to allow some of golf’s best designers to create an amazing golf experience for its visitors.

The courses are challenging and beautiful at the same time, as they reside close to the dramatic deep blue waters of the pacific coastline as well as close to the green volcanic mountains of the central valley.

Golfers from the ...


Keywords:
costa rica golf,golf,golfing,golf vacation,golf courses


Article Body:
Few places in the world offer the amazing variety of natural beauty and environment Costa Rica can provide.

This has made it possible for Costa Rica to allow some of golf’s best designers to create an amazing golf experience for its visitors.

The courses are challenging and beautiful at the same time, as they reside close to the dramatic deep blue waters of the pacific coastline as well as close to the green volcanic mountains of the central valley.

Golfers from the US and Canada will find that Costa Rica is very accessible from the whole continent and the prices keeps dropping. Once in Costa Rica you can besides the golfing also enjoy luxury vacations with all inclusive in tropical heavens like Los Sueños Marriot Ocean & Golf resort.

You can also find fine cuisines, hot nightlife and family activities everywhere, so everybody in the family will find their preferred vacation activity among one of the friendliest peoples in the world, the Ticos!

While touring Costa Rica visit and play golf courses like,

Parque Valle del Sol with its par 72, 6782 yards 18 hole course. Created by Tracy May or go north to the coast and try out the 18 hole course Hacienda Pinilla, a par 72, 7274 yards beauty created by Mike Young.

Some tips for a better golfing experience in Costa Rica.

* Check with your airline to see if they charge excess baggage fee for golf clubs.

* The least expensive form of transportation around the country, especially with a lot of golf clubs is to rent a car.

* Rainfall is a problem in the late afternoon and evening during the “green season”. Green season is from mid-May to mid-November, but the months of July and August normally see less rain and generally are beautiful with mild temperatures.

* Apply sun block before leaving for the golf course. Use shades and hat.

* Golf courses have dress code. The normal requirements are normally golf shirts with collars for men and proper attire for women. T-Shirts, bathing suits and short shorts are not permitted.

* Wildlife sensitive areas are common in Costa Rica. Take note of and respect signage for safety.

* The saying “trees are 90%” does not apply to dense tropical trees. “Tree lined fairways” is an expression that really has been taken to a completely new level here. So stay on the fairway.

* When playing at the resort ocean courses, you’ll have to learn how to play the wind. You have strong winds from the sea almost all year. Use the tree tops to get a feeling for the wind.

Want a perfect vacation with wonderful golfing experiences, go to Costa Rica!


