Title: 
Grand Canyon Tour - Puts A Different Perspective On Life

Word Count:
303

Summary:
The Grand Canyon National Park is deservedly classed as a World Heritage Site. It has an area of 1,218,375 acres, 1,904 square miles. Most of the park is maintained as wilderness. It can be seen from the moon and is something that everyone should experience at least once in their lifetime.

The Grand Canyon lies on the Colorado Plateau in northwest Arizona.

The Canyon, carved over millions of years by the Colorado River, is immense. It averages 4,000 feet deep for its en...


Keywords:
garnd canyon, kayak,kayaking,colorado,colorado river


Article Body:
The Grand Canyon National Park is deservedly classed as a World Heritage Site. It has an area of 1,218,375 acres, 1,904 square miles. Most of the park is maintained as wilderness. It can be seen from the moon and is something that everyone should experience at least once in their lifetime.

The Grand Canyon lies on the Colorado Plateau in northwest Arizona.

The Canyon, carved over millions of years by the Colorado River, is immense. It averages 4,000 feet deep for its entire 277 miles. It is 6,000 feet deep (a mile is 5,280 feet) at its deepest point and up to 15 miles wide.

The Grand Canyon National Park is a rich and varied biological habitat with 75 species of mammals, 25 species of fish, 50 species of reptiles and amphibians, 25 species of fish, and over 300 species of birds. These include some species that are not found outside the Park at all.

Human activities have impacted on the Grand Canyon National Park in many ways. These include the introduction of non-native plants and animals, the contamination of streams with fecal bacteria, haze caused by air pollution and worst of all by the construction of the Glen Canyon Dam in 1963. Our aircraft, quad bikes and automobiles disturb the tranquillity of the Park.

You can see the Grand Canyon on foot, horseback, mule, quad bike, kayak, helicopter ride or in a small plane. The temperature in the canyons gets very high during the day, and hikers should take advice from rangers on water supplies, necessary food and avoiding dehydration and heat stroke.

If you are hiking, camping or riding off the main trails, in the backcountry, you will need a permit. Permits can be obtained through the Backcountry Information Center. Rangers patrol and inspect camps they find for permits and to check that campers are adhering to the conditions laid down in the permit


