Title: 
Great Holiday Destination, Madrid

Word Count:
433

Summary:
Plan city breaks in Madrid the capital of Spain and one of the hot destination for city breaks or holidays. Madrid is the capital and the largest city in Spain, located on the river Manzanares in the center of the country. Madrid has been presented with a degree of cultural prevalence.


Keywords:
City breaks in Madrid, holidays, cheap flights to Madrid, short breaks, bargain holidays, cheap hotels in Madrid, city breaks, Madrid hotel reservations, cheap flights, package holiday to Madrid


Article Body:
The official epithet for the natives of the city is Madrileño, but they are frequently known as gatos (cats). City breaks in Madrid will make it apparent that the city positions itself as one of the important cities in Europe. Madrid is a foremost southern European city and the most significant link between the European Union and Latin America. The enlightened city is home to over three million people. Like any other chief European capital city, each district (or barrio in Spanish) has its own ambiance.

Madrid is also distinguished for its nightlife and discotheques. Young & warm madrileños dances all night and stop off for chocolate at first light. Also trendy is the custom of gathering in parks or streets with friends and drinking together (called 'botellón', from 'botella', bottle). Since few years drinking in the street is endorsed with a fine. The juvenile madrileños drink together all around the city instead of in some well-known places. You‘ll take best pleasure in your Madrid holidays.

Other cultural tourist attractions include the Royal Palace of Madrid and the nearby royal monastery of San Lorenzo de El Escorial. Madrid's main Opera Theatre is the Teatro Real (Royal theatre). In front of the theatre is the Royal Palace. The Royal Palace is no longer used as a residence, but it has been kept intact since it last functioned as home to the King, serving as a cultural monument and occasionally used for state functions. The entire palace is not open to the public, but most of the more important rooms can be visited.

Serving the city's population of some six million, the Madrid Metro is one of the most far-reaching and fastest-growing metro networks in the world. It is now the second largest metro system in Western Europe, first being the London's Underground. The province of Madrid is also served by a widespread rail network called Cercanías. Madrid is operated by Barajas International Airport. With airlines commencing new routes to Madrid, there is now a good choice of cheap flights to Madrid from UK Airports.  You can book online with many online travel agents in UK, and receive access to extremely competitively priced Madrid city break packages along with a £5.00 per person discount!   You can also book cheap flights to Madrid while booking Madrid hotels at http://www.mymadrid.co.uk . Look out for other money saving offers when you book online!Plan your trip to Madrid now whilst airfares are still low and the city remains unspoilt before the hoards of tourists and stags discover this latest new destination.


