Title: 
Greenland – The Misunderstood Land of Intrigue

Word Count:
362

Summary:
Say “Greenland” and a traveler immediately thinks of a giant slab of ice. With attractions such as Disko Bay, Motzfeldt So Lake, and the hikes around Qaqortoq, Greenland is great for travelers looking for something off the beaten path.


Keywords:
greenland


Article Body:
Say “Greenland” and a traveler immediately thinks of a giant slab of ice. With attractions such as Disko Bay, Motzfeldt So Lake, and the hikes around Qaqortoq, Greenland is great for travelers looking for something off the beaten path.

Disko Bay

Disko Bay is the home to massive icebergs. By massive, I am talking icebergs the size of large buildings. The icebergs are simply everywhere. Watching one of these giants shrug off a few hundred thousand pounds of ice is a sight you will never forget. More than a few people have suggested a one day boat cruise around Disko Bay is the most impressive you could ever take.

Motzfeldt So Lake

If hiking is a mandatory part of your vacation plan, Lake Motzfeldt is for you. The lake is enclosed by glaciers, has it’s own icebergs and is a stunning color of green. The peeks surrounding the lake top out above 5,000 feet. There are hundreds of stunning hikes around the lake with nearly all winding between immense glaciers. Staring up at the beautiful monsters will make your mind swirl.

Qaqortoq

Qaqortoq is a harbor town in the South of Greenland. Meaning “the white”, Qaqortoq has a population of a little over 3,000 people. The town is the location of the stone and people project, which involves sculptors creating marble pieces and placing them throughout the town. It is an impressive site, particularly during summer when flowers sprout with a vengeance throughout the area.

Travel Adventure

With the onset of adventure travel, Greenland has sprouted a new industry. If you’re going to go extreme, you really can’t beat Greenland. If you fancy yourself a jogger, try the Artic Marathon around Nuuk or the Polar Circle Race that runs from Kangerlussuaq to the boundary of the ice cap. If artic running doesn’t cut it, how about a playing with sharks? Yep, you can try your hand at catching the Greenland Shark in a 7-day shark challenge. These monsters weigh as much as 1,500 pounds.

While you may blanch at a suggested vacation on Greenland, you shouldn’t. The country is truly one of the last undiscovered refuges for the modern traveler.


