Title: 
Guide about Versilia in Tuscany

Word Count:
363

Summary:
Guide about Versilia (in Tuscany), with information on towns, local history, seaside vacations, tourist information, accommodation activities and events.


Keywords:
travel tourism holidays tuscany versilia


Article Body:
Versilia occupies the north-western part of Tuscany, between the ridge of the Apuan Alps and the Tyrrhenian Sea.

The historic territory of Versilia is divided into the administrative Communes of Pietrasanta, Forte di Marmi, Seravezza and Stazzema.

Nowaday, the term “Versilia” includes also the communes of Massarosa, Camaiore and Viareggio.

The area includes the Communes of Viareggio, Camaiore, Pietrasanta, Forte dei Marmi, Massarosa, Seravezza and Stazzema, the Regional Park of Migliarino-San Rossore-Massaciuccoli to the South and the Park of Apuane to the North. It is close to art cities such as Lucca (20 Km), Pisa (21 Km) and Florence (100 Km). It is easy to reach with any means of transport.

Versilia is characterised by a variety of landscape that changes, in a few km, from sea to hill, to mountain. It is a unique environment that confirms the gastronomic variety of meat and sea dishes. Its cooking is made of simple and genuine ingredients and it goes along with the most elaborate one that had to consider the tourist phenomenon. In fact, it requires a cooking more suitable to people with different tastes and coming from different parts of Italy and from abroad.

Versilia enjoys a peaceful mild and temperate climate all year long. The average temperature goes from 10°, during the winter, to 25°, during the summer. Due to the vicinity of the Apuane to the sea, rains are abundant during the whole year; whereas during the summer there are short but strong thunderstorms.

It is possible to come to Versilia on holidays during the whole year.

During the summer, when the sun heats the sandy beaches, the vicinity of the Apuane mitigates the heat and the climate becomes pleasant with windy days and fresh nights. During the day, it is possible to enjoy oneself on the beach and take a plunge in the sea, or a walk within the green of the pine forests, on the hills or on mountain paths, or take a visit to art cities and small villages well known to mass tourism.

During the night, there is only the embarrassment of choosing, from night clubs to open door theatres, from shopping to cultural exhibitions, from gastronomic feats (“sagre”) to simple walks.


