Title: 
Guide to London travel

Word Count:
521

Summary:
Being one of the most important capitals of the world, London ought to be having a high reputation among the people from all over the world. The country holds a very rich resource of history and domination over the entire world


Keywords:
Westminster, abbey, England, travel, guide


Article Body:
Being one of the most important capitals of the world, London ought to be having a high reputation among the people from all over the world. The country holds a very rich resource of history and domination over the entire world. Londoners can today boast of living in one of the historically most significant city of Europe. The city is studded with architectural wonder that remind of the engineering advancements that the country attained so early. The diverse population of the city amounts to a whopping 59 million, which makes it one of the most populated cities of the world. The ethnic backgrounds of the people largely vary as London offers some of the most lucrative job opportunities. People thus flow in from different parts of the world to find their destiny.

The city has evidences to shoe that it had human habitation for almost 22,000 ago too and since then it has sheltered humans through the ice ages and the wars and the invasions. Julius Caesar walked in to London in 55 BC as a part of the Greek conquest. The protective walls around the city reminds us of the efforts that the city dwellers to withstand the invasion. The British started their domination over the world with the Norman Conquest of 1066. Since then the expanse of the British Empire grew and it went across the lands and the oceans. Modern history knows London as the capital of almost the whole world as it was under the British dominion. 

Religion acts as a guiding force for the civilizations to grow. In London, religion has a special status for the people. The people have diversified beliefs. The firm position of Church of England, one of the oldest embodiments of Christianity, shows that the country still stands tall on the framework of religion. The conflicting groups of the Christians’ viz. Roman Catholics and Protestants find it as a missing link. How far the church is successful is subject to debate. 

The aesthetic interests of the people of London are much refined then anywhere in the world. The cultural map of England starts with London and it is the centre of most cultural activities of the country. The different forms of music and dance have been prevalent in the country for centuries now. The classical music, operas and the English folk music have had a great impact on the people of the country. Prior to the 15th century many music legends liven in England and had their influence on the music. The pop culture took the country into its hold since the 1960s. Pop bands started to come up and some such bands grew to scale new heights in the music world.

The myths have it that in the many monuments in England many have been reported to be haunted by the ghosts of people who lived there and their citing are reported every now and then. It also gives the tourists a reason to be visiting the place. Above and beyond every thing else the country is a example of upholding the traditions and thus it becomes imperative to go there and fell them firsthand.


