Title: 
Guide to northwest travel

Word Count:
563

Summary:
One of the most beautiful regions in North America is the Northwest. With breathtaking scenery and never ending coasts it has fast gained the reputation of being one of the best travel destinations in Americas


Keywords:
northwest, travel, seattle, Portland, mountains


Article Body:
One of the most beautiful regions in North America is the Northwest. With breathtaking scenery and never ending coasts it has fast gained the reputation of being one of the best travel destinations in Americas. The mountain ranges are apt for the thriving wilderness and for the adventure lovers too. Mount Saint Helens with its historical past and Mt. Rainer with the natures bounty stand tall in the northwest as embodiments of the claim the place makes about its grandeur. The metropolitan scene of this side of America is abuzz with cities like Washington and Oregon making it the political corner of the country. The ocean too is gracious enough to offer all its beauty to the northwestern coast. The northern pacific flushes the coast and some of the most fantastic beaches are found on the coastal cities like Washington. The waters are also home to whales, which has made whale-watching a favorite activity in this part of North America. 

The adventure seekers find it very intriguing and challenging to come and challenge their limits in the mountains of northwest America. The undulating topography on the mountainsides is apt for the mountain bikers. The mountaineering sport has also got a lot of stronghold in the region because of the challenging mountain ranges. The sports scene is fully supported by the mountainous landform. The local tourism too is fully supported by this fact and the tourist industry too is a flourishing one. The major adventure sports events are organized in this region and this has brought the northwest frontier of America on the global scene. So much on the adventure sports in the mountains of this part.

The vast expanse of the sea has also become a very popular playground for the adventure hungry. The surfers always prefer to ride the more challenging waves around. Water comes in abundance in this part of USA. The kayaking and rafting in the gushing waters of the Wenatchee river of the Washington region attracts many tourists fro m all over. It is considered one of the most challenging raft routes in America. The rafting scene in this region never dies off.

If there is one place where you can enjoy exquisite coffee sitting in the verandah of a rain drenched house, it has to be Seattle. The place is known equally for its coffee and rains. The city is world famous for being home to some of the greatest rock bands. The music never dies in Seattle. Shopping and looking around the town, the tourist opine, is one enjoyable way to pass a day while in Seattle.  The pacific North West has other important cities such as Oregon famous for its beaches. 

The northwest holiday is incomplete without a visit to the famous Islands of San Juan. The beauty of nature can be felt by strolling through the wilderness of the islands. There is a mystic aura about the island that attracts thousands of tourists from America and abroad. The 3-4 hour cruise on an ancient ship gives a nostalgic feeling of the days of past and the lives of the seafaring men. 

Whale watching, mountain biking, cascading rafting the adventure never stops in this part of America. The place has so much to offer that you can’t help but come. So come vacations pack your bags and head northwest because its here that the party begins.


