Title: 
Has Dubai Been Under Occupation All These Years?

Word Count:
545

Summary:
Dubai's expatriate population outnumbers the ethnic Arab community. Why has this been allowed to take place? Are the rulers trying to give away their homeland? The answer may speak of a very different scenario however, as this article seems to suggest.


Keywords:
Cheap Hotels Dubai, 5 Stars Hotels Dubai, Dubai Hotels, Hotels in Dubai, Duibai Holidays, Dubai Travel, Dubai Accommodation, Dubai Beach Hotel, Dubai Cheap Hotels, Dubai Discounted Hotels


Article Body:
Why have the expatriates been allowed in Dubai to outnumber the ethnic Arab community living there? Estimates suggest up to eighty percent of Dubai's current population might be composed of the foreigners living and working for its development. Their presence is overwhelming, from the dockyard to the sea coast, from the international airport to the lavish Jumeirah Palm Beach, from the street side cafes to the towering lord of catering, Burj Al Arab. There is no single spot available in today's Dubai that you might finally call free of foreign incursion. The outnumber of the local populace is mammoth by any standards. Eighty percent is a shocking mark indeed!

So why is it taking place? Have Dubai's rulers suddenly gone crazy and allowing invaders to take away their homeland? Records will suggest contrary to any such hypothesis though. Neither are Dubai's rulers mindless Shaikhs nor are the expatriates living there planning to take over. The trend of foreigners arriving in Dubai has been on for over a century now and they have become an intrinsic part of its multicultural identity. Both sides are willing partners in all the spheres, including trade and commerce and the cohesive living they are known for. There is no reason why they will ever decide to move away from this mutual understanding. Both have been making the best out of this arrangement and would prefer the way the things are.

We often find as a result, Indian Cinema stars taking up positions on stage and entertaining the Indian expatriates living there. Hollywood celebrities and sports personalities are also spotted on several occasions. Many events like tennis and golf matches on the helipad of Burj Al Arab, the worlds tallest hotel right now, have been making rounds in the media. The ICC meetings taking place in their newly acquired headquarters keep the cricketing pundits worldwide busy. Many cricket fans were shocked to know when the ICC moved to Dubai from London instead of a place like Mumbai where a much better cricketing infrastructure was already in place. With the passage of time they have also begun realizing though, why Dubai was not a bad decision after all.

Dubai's multifaceted lifestyle apart from its trade and commerce is one important reason why so many people are flocking on its doors. The peaceful coexistence of so many cultures on its soil gives the conflict ridden west and central Asia a ray of hope. There may not be any better reason than this therefore, for the world to travel and be part of Dubai's perplexing experiences. The latter stands fully geared on its part for taking care of your much valued stays. Not only does it have an infrastructure at par with most of the developed nations but it also surpasses them on several occasions.

From some of the best landmarks in the world to one of the most beautiful beaches on earth, from one of the most advanced lifestyles in Asia to one of the most expensive hotels on earth, and from one of the most orthodox Islamic beliefs in Arabia to one of the best cosmopolitan states globally - Dubai has it all and wishes you could also be a part of it someday. Happy visiting Dubai, whenever you may decide undertaking it!


