Title: 
Have you relished a vacation to Egypt?

Word Count:
535

Summary:
this article explores Egypt, the land of wonders as a perfect holiday destination.


Keywords:
travel and leisure


Article Body:
Have you relished a vacation to Egypt?
Since time memorial Egypt is deemed to be the land of mysteries and myths. Surprisingly Egypt is not blessed with the charismatic aspect of Mother Nature but it is paradigm of manual work at its excellence. 

The Egyptian pyramids and other monuments, their ambience, art and architecture have notched a distinguished place on earth. Egypt is also known for its archaic civilization, the unique Egyptian culture and heritage and for the simplicity of Egyptians.

This hot land of deserts has always been wooing countless visitors every year. It has nestled something for people of all age group and from any profession. While almost every historian is intrigued by the Egyptian history and civilization that is one of the greatest ancient civilizations in the world today, for the engineers to it is no less thrilling to explore the wonders of the world here. A trip to Egypt is quite informative for the kids too. This is because Egypt best instantiates or is a perfect mirror to its past. A stroll in the streets of Egyptian cities will acquaint you with the work and other remains of different dynasties that reigned here. It is a lifetime experience to visit the land that was the pride of eminent rulers such as Alexander, Napoleon and Mohammed Ali Pasha.

If we navigate through the Egyptian cities we find that Egypt’s capital Cairo is the largest metropolitan in Africa. It is an ideal amalgam of ethnicity and modernity. From the age-old cupolas and minarets, vibrant markets to skyscraping buildings and pulsating nightlife, Cairo has it all. A wonderful feature of Cairo is that the luxury as well as the budget travelers can have a great vacation here. For while on the one hand there are simple and inexpensive accommodations on the other Cairo has quite a few excellent luxury resorts and hotels.The temple city of Amen-Ra is also a place worth visiting in Egypt. It lies near the village of Karnak and is home to the great Luxor Museum. People also come to see the magnificent Temple Complex of Amen-Ra and the Temple of the Goddess Mut, the wife of Amen-Ra. If you desire to see the coveted 13.5 meters tall well-dressed limestone statue of Pharaoh wearing a weatherworn crown, make a visit to the ancient city of Memphis. Besides this statue of Colossus of Ramses II the other lures of Memphis include a small Open-air Museum, the beautiful Alabaster Sphinx and the Embalming Site of Apis. The Site of Apis is famous for the sacred animal of god Ptah, the Apis bull that was mummified here prior to its being buried.

Not to forget are the globally acclaimed spectacular pyramids of Giza. The pyramids lie to the west of Cairo and their construction can be traced back to middle of third millennium B.C.  You can observe these pyramids on foot or via camel ride. Visitors can also delight in the swimming, coral reefs and other underwater wonders at the popular Sinai Peninsula. Aqua adventures can also be enjoyed at Hurghada that lies on the south of Suez Canal. Hurghada is famous for swimming and scuba diving.

Sid writes more on Egypt.


