Title: 
Hawaii Vacation In January? Don’t Miss These Local Events.

Word Count:
300

Summary:
If you are traveling to Hawaii in January, here are a few annual local events for you to consider adding to your itinerary.

The Ka Moloka'i Makahiki (Ancient Hawaiian Games) is celebrated in the Kaunakakai Town Baseball Park & Mitchell Pauole Community Center on the island of Moloka'i. Every year around, January 21, you can enjoy this week-long celebration of ancient Hawaiian sports competitions. It features Hawaiian games, music, hula dancing, arts & crafts and food.

F...


Keywords:
vacation, travel, hawaii


Article Body:
If you are traveling to Hawaii in January, here are a few annual local events for you to consider adding to your itinerary.

The Ka Moloka'i Makahiki (Ancient Hawaiian Games) is celebrated in the Kaunakakai Town Baseball Park & Mitchell Pauole Community Center on the island of Moloka'i. Every year around, January 21, you can enjoy this week-long celebration of ancient Hawaiian sports competitions. It features Hawaiian games, music, hula dancing, arts & crafts and food.

For over 50 years, Honolulu has held the Narcissus Festival. Beginning in mid-January its purpose is to preserve and promote Chinese culture and traditions. Honolulu’s Chinatown jumps with celebrations such as traditional lion dances dancing in the streets. There is the Narcissus Queen Pageant, Coronation Ball, Chinatown Open House, folk dances and a Fashion Show.

January on Oahu’s North Shore brings The Morey Boogie World Bodyboard Championship. Held at the famous Banzai Pipeline on Ehukai Beach Park, bodyboard surfers from around the world come to showcase their talents. This is fun for the surfing fans and anyone who enjoys good outdoor competition.

Late January is the start of Honolulu’s Cherry Blossom Festival, one of the longest running ethnic celebrations in the State of Hawaii. Lasting through March there is much to see. Some highlights are the Japanese tea ceremony, Heritage Fair at the Japanese Cultural Center of Hawaii, and flower arranging demonstrations. At The Festival ball, the Cherry Blossom Queen and Court are selected.

For sports fans January brings the Hula Bowl and the NFL Pro Bowl to Aloha Stadium in Honolulu. The Hula Bowl is the college all-star football game. Here is your chance to see some of the best players play their final collegiate game. The NFL Pro Bowl brings together all the top-rated professional football players for a head-to-head competition.


