Title: 
Hawaii Vacation Accommodation and Lodging

Word Count:
614

Summary:
A vacation to Hawaii can be truly memorable and highly cost saving if planned well in advance and with proper care. Hotels in Hawaii can be expensive and one could spend a fortune on them. There are other options that can provide a family or a group with better accommodation.


Keywords:
Hawaii,Oahu,Maui,Kauai,Big Island, Molokai,Lanai,rental,List,listing,villa,vacation rentals,holiday rentals, holiday homes,vacation homes


Article Body:
Incorporated as the 50th state in the United States of America on 21st August 1959, Hawaii is an archipelago of Hawaiian Islands lying in the central Pacific Ocean and is also known as the Aloha state. Hawaii is the southernmost part of the USA, lying 2500 miles from the mainland. They were known as the Sandwich Islands (named by the British explorer, Captain James Cook) and became U.S. territory in 1900. The Hawaii includes eight major islands – Kahoolawe, Lanai, Hawaii, Maui, Nihau, Oahu, Kauai and Molokai in addition to many islets. These islands were united under a ruler King Kamehameha the Great.

With its capital at Honolulu, Hawaiian and English languages are widely spoken. The biggest industry in the Hawaii is tourism, contributing to more than 75% of its economy. The main attraction of the Hawaiian islands are its coral beaches, cloud shrouded volcanic peaks, lush green vegetation contributing to its apt name “paradise of the Pacific” with palm trees in abundant sunshine dotting the beauty line.

A vacation to Hawaii can be truly memorable and highly cost saving if planned well in advance and with proper care. Hotels in Hawaii can be expensive and one could spend a fortune on them. There are other options that can provide a family or a group with better accommodation and good facilities if properly researched. Vacation accommodation in Hawaii can be arranged by looking for Hawaii discount vacation rentals, vacation rental homes in Hawaii or condos for vacation rental in Hawaii.

Each and every one of the Hawaiian Islands are unique in their own way. Oahu, home of the Waikiki beach, Diamond Head, Pearl Harbor and the capital city Honolulu has big wave surfing. It is the most inhabited and most modern of the Hawaiian Islands and has great nightlife to offer. Kauai, the garden isle on the other hand is the oldest tropical island with scenic surroundings and marvelous nature. It houses the Mount Wai'ale'ale, the wettest spot on earth, Bali Hai and Hanalei. Maui also known as the valley isle has glamorous golf courses, is known for whale watching and the huge and famous Haleakala Crater. Hawaii, the big island boasts of big game fishing, lava fields, black sand beaches, tropical rain forests, volcanoes and waterfalls. The major attractions in the Hawaiian Islands are

The Ala Kahakai National Historic Trail
The Haleakala National Park and the Haleakala Wilderness
The Hawaii Volcanoes National Park
The Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary
The James Campbell National Wildlife Refuge
The Kalaupapa National Historical Park
The Kaloko-Honokohau National Historical Park
The Kilauea Point National Wildlife Refuge
The Kona Historical Society
The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands Coral Reef Ecosystem Reserve
The Oahu Forest National Wildlife Refuge
The Palmyra Atoll National Wildlife Refuge
The Puukohola Heiau National Historic Site
The USS Arizona Memorial, Pearl Harbor
The Akaka Falls etc.

For those whoa re just planning the vacation, vacation rentals in Hawaii are usually comprised of stand-alone houses, apartments or condominiums equipped with full amenities and functional kitchens. In Hawaii, most condo rentals and other kind of vacation rentals are located right on the beaches and many also boast of private swimming pools, Jacuzzis and tennis courts. A normal staying period at a vacation rental is a minimum of one week. Vacation rentals work out to be cheaper if the number in the group is higher especially with the use of kitchen for meals.

Vacation rentals facilitate staying in Hawaii, the way the rich and the famous do. Vacation rentals enable the tourists to stay in luxurious beach home rentals or condo rentals for a fraction of the cost of a staying in a hotel. Book early and enjoy the Hawaiian Islands in style.


