Title: 
HEC Montreal

Word Count:
516

Summary:
Montreal, Quebec is the second biggest city in Canada. It is a multi-cultured city and ranks second in the highest proportion of students per capita in the whole North America. Having four universities, Montreal is considered as the leader in university research and development in Canada.

HEC Montreal is located within the vicinity of the business center of Montreal. HEC Montreal was established in 1907 and is considered as the oldest management school in Canada. It is the...


Keywords:
mba, canadian mba, mba canada, mba programs, business schools,  canada mba, mba schools, degree


Article Body:
Montreal, Quebec is the second biggest city in Canada. It is a multi-cultured city and ranks second in the highest proportion of students per capita in the whole North America. Having four universities, Montreal is considered as the leader in university research and development in Canada.

HEC Montreal is located within the vicinity of the business center of Montreal. HEC Montreal was established in 1907 and is considered as the oldest management school in Canada. It is the first school in North America to receive three accreditations including the AACSB International, EQUIS and AMBA. It is the first non-European school to be given an EQUIS accreditation. These are recognition are proofs that HEC Montreal had passed strict quality standards to be able to be awarded such accreditation. 

The school accommodates thousands of Canadian students as well as students from all over the globe. The school has about 12,000 students, 2,800 of which hold non-Canadian student visas and permanent residents. There are about 55% of international students in the school. It is among the top 100 business schools in the world according to the Wall Street Journal in 2004 edition of the Guide to the Top Business Schools. The HEC Montreal has stunning facilities and has one of the leading bilingual business libraries. It houses the finest equipped trading rooms that students would find very useful. It has the progressive management teaching and study.

The HEC Montreal MBA Program is offered in two languages, in English as well as in French. The MBA 2004 Classification of BusinessWeek considers HEC Montreal among the 10 best MBA Programs outside United States. Its MBA program has about 60% of international students from about 20 countries all over the world. 

The innovative MBA program offered as full time and can be completed in a period of 53 weeks with 5 weeks of project consulting. And as of part time, it can be completed in a span of 3 years. There are about 100 selections of different specializations that students can choose from in phase three of the course. Different methods of teaching such as case studies, debates and discussions are being utilized. Students can get first hand knowledge when the school conducts various seminars where business managers themselves give out lectures. All of these teaching methods are what make learning in HEC Montreal MBA program effective for its students. All programs are technologically advanced giving graduates an edge in the job market. The school also provides scholarships of about $175,000 that are available to outstanding and deserving international and Canadian applicants. 

The guide in landing a career does not end after graduation in HEC Montreal, graduates can access a personalized career management service and a very effective interactive web-based job-hunting tool.
 
It is the main objective of the school to promote international head in management principles. It is committed in preparing students for their future jobs as managers and specialists who contribute to the progression of the society. The diversity in cultural backgrounds and professional backgrounds experienced in HEC Montreal takes the learning process to a global scale. It is the school’s commitment to promote global and multilingual form of teaching and molding future leaders.


