Title: 
Holiday in Greece - Rent Private Vacation Rentals at a Bargain Price

Word Count:
511

Summary:
If you have an interest in beauty, art, architecture and the classic culture that gave us our civilization, then a visit to Greece is just the ticket.  And a vacation rental of a villa, a beach house or another type of private home will give you a chance to experience this wonderful country that is impossible when going from hotel to hotel.


Keywords:
Greece,vacation rentals,holiday rentals, holiday homes,vacation homes,travel,lodging,condo,condominium,free advertising


Article Body:
If you have an interest in beauty, art, architecture and the classic culture that gave us our civilization, then a visit to Greece is just the ticket.  And a vacation rental of a villa, a beach house or another type of private home will give you a chance to experience this wonderful country that is impossible when going from hotel to hotel.  

There are so many places in Greece that choosing a location for your vacation rental can be mind boggling.  Choices include beach houses, apartments, cabins, condos, and other types of holiday homes.  Securing lodging is easy though, when you see what is available.  And the locations in Greece are wonderful.  Crete, the largest of the Greek islands is beautiful and has many archeological sites to visit, as well as tourist attractions like Knossos and Phaistos.  Crete was home to the ancient civilization of the Minoans, from 2600 BC to 1400 BC, and in more recent times gave the world the famous writer, poet and novelist Nikos Kazantakis. 

Athens is known as the birthplace of democracy.  This ancient city was home to the Greek philosophers like Aristotle, Plato and Socrates.  Named after the goddess Athena, Athens is one of the most famous cities in the world, and one of the oldest.  As a city state Athens figured prominently in ancient history as well as myths and legends of the ancient world.  The Greek capital, now home to three and a half million people, has been called the cradle of civilization due to the many achievements of its culture.  Birthplace of the Olympic Games, Athens is home to art and architecture, including the famous Acropolis.

Wine, honey, olive oil, and sheep herding are just a few of the products that can be sampled fresh if our holiday home is in Thassos.  This island figures prominently in ancient history and is named after Thasus, son of Phoenix and leader of the Phoenicians who first settled the island and erected a temple to Heracles.  Imagine a vacation on Thassos, staying in a private home near a beautiful beach, enjoying sun and sand and dreaming of the long ago days of great civilizations.  You will be sure to enjoy the native cooking, picking up a bit of the Greek language, and staying with some of the most hospitable people on earth.  

Greece is a country that at one time ruled the known world, through Alexander the Great.  And even when military conquest was no longer part of its agenda, many believe that Greek culture conquered Roman culture from within, with the Romans copying Greek art and architecture and even religion.  When the Roman Empire split into Eastern and Western halves, it was the Greek half of the empire, the Byzantine Empire of Constantine, which lasted far into the middle ages.  Greece is truly a country to enjoy and to learn from, and the most enjoyable way to learn about Greece is through a vacation, with lodging in a private home. 

Rent holiday home or vacation rental in Greece on http://greece-holiday-homes.com and enjoy your stay!


