Title: 
Holidaying in Brighton, London by the Sea

Word Count:
505

Summary:
Known as "London by the Sea", Brighton is one of the UK's largest and most famous seaside resorts.


Keywords:
UK, Hotels,Accommodation, Cheap, Brighton


Article Body:
Known as "London by the Sea", Brighton is one of the UK's largest and most famous seaside resorts. 
 
Brighton's  heyday came in the 18th Century when the town's favour with the party-loving Prince of Wales (later George VI) gave it an immediate cachet. The London elite flocked to Brighton in the royal wake and traces of this old gentility remains in the fashionable town houses, squares and crescents in the Victorian mode. The most marked royal touch is seen in the the fantastic Brighton Royal Pavilion with its eastern domes and spires.  

The English aristocracy later neglected Brighton in favour of resorts in continental Europe. However, the opening of the railway in 1841 brought in a regular flood of day trippers and weekend trysters that continues to this day. The addition of piers and amusements parks served to attract a more general visitor in search of fairground rides, candy floss and jaw breaking rock. 

Today's Brighton is moving with the times. It's just 52 miles  from London and offers a wide range of hotels, restaurants and entertainment facilities. This make it a popular conference industry destination. Plus, it's recently become a popular location for high-tech media companies to set up shop. 

The seafront features a pebble beach, and the strip between its two piers is lined with bars, eateries, night clubs and amusement arcades. Brighton beach also has a designated official nudist area.

Brighton is now home to one of Europe's largest marinas and an outdoor sports centre. And it's well-stocked with shopping outlets such as clothing stores, jewellers, and antique shops. Brighton also has a number of museums including the Brighton Museum and Art Gallery, the Booth Museum of Natural History, the Brighton Fishing Museum and the Brighton Toy and Model Museum.

transport:getting there and getting around

Fast trains whisk passengers from London to Brighton in under an hour. There are 41 departures a day from Victoria or London Bridge Station. Alternatively, buses from Victoria Coach Station reach Brighton in about two hours. Driving is easy along the M23 and connecting with the A23.

Getting around Brighton is easy with its extensive bus service and abundance of taxis. There is also a limited night-bus service. Brighton seafront features the Volks Electric Railway, the worlds oldest electric railway. A recent innovation is the introduction of motorised trishaws from Asia known as tuc-tucs.

climate:
Brighton is located on the south coast of England and so is subject to that island nation's capricious weather. Summer in July and August is usually warm and sunny but as with everywhere in the UK, rain is always a possibility.

Accommodation:from cheap stays to luxury resorts

Check on the internet for the range, location and cost of hotels in Brighton

Check on the internet for the range, location and cost of Brighton hotels

Check on the internet for the range, location and cost of Brighton accommodation
 
Events:
•	May sees the Brighton Festival. It's an arts festival that features processions and fireworks along with theatre, music and visual arts events throughout the city.


