Title: 
Holiday In Thailand

Word Count:
646

Summary:
Thailand means “the land of the free” lies in the heart of Southeast Asia. It is one of the most beautiful places in the world and one can only experience the exotic beauty of the place when you get there. The fresh air kissing your face when you walk on the beach, the mouth watering dishes and the rush and madness in the market is something you will perhaps not get to see anywhere else.

Thailand’s geographical region is divided into four parts:

The mountains and forest...


Keywords:
thailand,travel,vacation


Article Body:
Thailand means “the land of the free” lies in the heart of Southeast Asia. It is one of the most beautiful places in the world and one can only experience the exotic beauty of the place when you get there. The fresh air kissing your face when you walk on the beach, the mouth watering dishes and the rush and madness in the market is something you will perhaps not get to see anywhere else.

Thailand’s geographical region is divided into four parts:

The mountains and forests are in the north. You can find fascinating handicrafts and multicolored orchids.

The central part where you will find paddy field, farms and all kinds of fruits.
The northeast plateau is famous for its rich archaeological and anthropological heritage.
You will find tropical islands in the southern peninsula. The people on this place are involved in fishing, rubber cultivation and tin mining.

The people of Thailand are very friendly and hospitable. This place is rich in monumental heritage and famous for its beaches. Thailand is an ideal holiday destination for all, from those who are looking for a romantic holiday, to shoppers to the food lovers as you get to taste varieties of sea food, down in the street to the most expensive restaurants. It offers something to every traveler.

Many travelers also come here for adventurous holiday. As this place offer all kinds of sport for all ages like scuba diving, snorkeling, wind-surfing and water-skiing .After all these activities you can simply relax by lounging on the beautiful beach sipping your favorite drink with a good company.

Bangkok is the capital of Thailand.Bankok means “city of angels”, it is a small Thailand in itself. It is the centre of commercial, industrial and cultural activities. If you are looking for peace and simplicity you can visit the Buddhist temples and the amazing part is it stands by side by side with nightclubs and cafés. You can see monks walking in their red robes all over the place and one can only wonder how they can attain such peacefulness in this rush and hectic world.

Another main attraction in Thailand is Phuket known for its exotic island. The nightlife there is lively with its multicuisine restaurants and bars always filled with tourists. But of course if are looking for a quite meal you can do that by going to the right place.

Chiang Mai is another place which is a combination of modern city life and the old village charm. There are elaborate temples and cultural relics some of which are very old close to 700 years. On the top of the mountain is Doi Suthep monastery which overlooks the fertile valley embracing Chiang Mai.The local night bazaar is the favorite shopping place for tourists where you can get hand made local stuff, tribal wears and also latest modern junks for a good bargain.

You will have no problem communicating as most of the hotels, restaurants and tourist places speak English and other European languages. There are various modes of transportation. You can either hire a taxi to go around the city, or take the city bus .There is also something called Tuk-Tuk, a three wheeler. You would definitely enjoy the open air ride on this three wheeler and for longer destinations there are trains always running to all the places.

Thailand is blessed with three seasons-summers from February to May, Rainy season from June to October with plenty of sunshine and the cold season from November to January. A lot of people go for holidays in Thailand during December and January as it is the perfect season to relax and party. Thailand becomes a mini world as people from all over the world come here for holidays during this season.

Surely now you know what your next holiday destination is -God’s very own creation Thailand!!!


