Title: 
Honeymoon destination in Australia

Word Count:
570

Summary:
Article that gives info on honeymooning in Australia and all the fun things to do and places to go


Keywords:
honeymoon destinations,destinations,romantic destinations,travel,honeymoon,honeymoon canada,north america,honeymoon usa,australia honeymoon


Article Body:
Honeymooning Down Under with a Honeymoon destination in Australia

It’s the only continent in the world that also happens to be a country. They’re known for the kangaroo and rugged men with their heavy Australian accents. For an exotic experience during your honeymoon, why not try exploring the Australian wilderness and bask in the Australian sun? 

There’s a varied range of spa treatments, horse drawn carriage rides, hot air balloon rides and rafting and scuba diving in this part of the world. The Australian wilderness, with the kangaroos and the koalas and the various species of birds are perfect for the couple who’d like to explore the outdoors and get in touch with the rugged side of nature. 

A world class city, there’s Sydney to explore – the restaurants for wining and dining and the stores for shopping – if you ever get tired of the Australian wild. If you want adventure, there’s the Sydney Harbor Bridgeclimb to take you on top of the world. 

And if you want to feel the seaside breeze and the cool mountain air, there’s the city of Melbourne. Explore their offerings of parks, gardens, and pure, Australian entertainment. There’s also the Yarra Valley, with its 30 wineries, to visit.  

There’s Brisbane with its tropical weather and amazing beaches. Go swimming at the Gold and Sunshine Coasts or explore the islands of Moreton Bay  and the Scenic Rim. Farther north, there’s an amazing rainforest you can explore. 

South of the country, there’s Adelaide, a stylish and vibrant city. With its hills and beaches, Adelaide offers the best in entertainment. Visit its bookshops, galleries, cafes and pubs, antique stores and fashion houses. Twenty-minutes away from Adelaide, there are the Adelaide Hills, a break from the city life. It offers an excellent taste of country life – great food, great wine, great country scenery. Drive around the area and explore the vineyard and market gardens, Australian bushlands and pasture land. 

Forty minutes farther from Adelaide, honeymooners can go exploring the coastline of the Fleurieu Peninsula. If you’re looking for some private swimming, this is the place to go. The beaches are protected by cliffs and bushlands that tips fown rolling hills.  

And of course, don’t ever dare miss the Kangaroo Island when you go exploring Down South. A nature lover’s haven, Kangaroo Island is the third largest island off the coast of Australia. Isolated from the rest of the country, it offers wildlife yet to be explored – clean air, clean water, unspoiled scenery and an exotic mix of flora and fauna. 

Here are other ideal places to explore on your Australian honeymoon: 

Barossa. Go wine-tasting at one or more of its 60 cellar doors. Experience the soothing taste of this regions products and get to be one of those that have had this wondrous delight.

Limestone Coast. There’s white sand beaches, lush pasture lands, seaside towns and yes, vineyards and wineries to explore. Coonawarra is one of the most famous wine regions and the experience is as exhilarating as the wine you get to taste. 

Whether its’ the wilderness, the beaches, the rolling hills and the lush pastures, the food and the fine wine you’re after, Australian is the place. It offers you a colorful blend of entertainment, good scenery, good food and a memorable honeymoon experience. Going south may be the best honeymoon idea yet.


