Title: 
Hotels Of Paraguay

Word Count:
671

Summary:
Paraguay , known for its mix of history and folklore has several large, top ranked hotels to stay in. Paraguay is located in Central South America, with a population of five million people. The popular language is Spanish, but Guarani is widely spoken too.

Whether you are visiting for a short time, or an extended period, there are a host of choices to stay. The sub-tropic climate of South America makes visiting anytime possible and a pleasure. There are hotels in Paraguay ...


Keywords:
paraguay,hotel,travel,vacation,south america


Article Body:
Paraguay , known for its mix of history and folklore has several large, top ranked hotels to stay in. Paraguay is located in Central South America, with a population of five million people. The popular language is Spanish, but Guarani is widely spoken too.

Whether you are visiting for a short time, or an extended period, there are a host of choices to stay. The sub-tropic climate of South America makes visiting anytime possible and a pleasure. There are hotels in Paraguay for every budget offering a wide array of services.

When booking a trip, check online websites or a travel agent to get the best deal on a hotel in Paraguay. They have up to the minute pricing on hotels in Paraguay and details on any events happening in the city of your destination.

Asuncion is the most popular city to visit in Paraguay. There are hotels in othe Paraguay cities, but they aren’t as large or as many as Asuncion. Some of the most popular hotels in Paraguay are listed below with any amenities they may offer.


Sheraton Hotel, Asuncion, Paraguay

This five star hotel has its own restaurant and bar. Rooms are top notch with phone line, internet connection, cable TV and phone services. Rooms are handicap accessible and have ample parking for cars and busses. The grounds of the hotel house a beauty parlor, a boutique, a gym, an outdoor swimming pool, spa and a sauna. 

The hotel has numerous amenities for its guests including babysitting and laundry service. Fees range from $70 per night up to $200 per night for a deluxe room. Special rates apply during holidays and special events. 


Hotel Resort Casino Yacht and Golf Club, Asuncion, Paraguay

Hotel Resort Casino Yacht and Golf Club is located on the river. It is conveniently located close to the city and the airport. The hotel offers many outdoor activities, including kayaking, tennis, golf, fishing, squash, basketball and volleyball.

Kid’s activities are offered, as well as events for the ladies. An onsite spa offers beauty treatments, massages, body treatments and relaxation techniques. 

State of the art conference facilities are available for banquets, meetings and private functions. Several rooms can accommodate large or small gatherings, with food and beverage services.

A casino makes this hotel of Paraguay unique. Have a great time at night, or any time playing slots, cards or watching others. The Hotel Resort is rated a five star for service and style. Rates are $88 to $149 per night for double occupancy.

 
Lipa Aparthotel, Asuncion, Paraguay

Situated in a quiet but central location, in Lipa you have easy access to all parts of the city. 

Pretty, attractive and affordable modern apartments available with daily, weekly or monthly rates for either a short or a long term stay in Paraguay. Rooms are very comfortable with phone line, DSL internet connection, cable TV, DVD Player, complete kitchen, free mini bar and phone services.

A beautiful tropical garden will invite you to relax, chat with friends or perhaps enjoy a delicious barbecue. Prices range from $38 to $78 per night for double occupancy including breakfast.

When traveling abroad, there are several websites to check for up to date information. http://www.fodors.com offers destination ideas no matter where you are headed. Visit the State Department website for any special warnings or concerns for Americans. They also have recommendations on what vaccinations to get before heading to Paraguay.

Citizens of Paraguay are proud of their country. They take pride in their appearance no matter what economic class they are in. They also expect their visitors to have the same respect for their country. Men wear pants and dress shirts and women wear dresses. 

Hotels in Paraguay in the city of Asuncion have good medical facilities nearby. Once you travel outside the city, however, medical supplies are limited. 

Shopping in Paraguay is done in the shopping centers, Mariscal Lopez , Shopping del Sol, Multiplaza, Paseo Carmelitas or on the streets. Leather goods and baskets found there are some of the finest handcrafted in the world.


