Title: 
How to Pick a Hotel in Las Vegas

Word Count:
411

Summary:
Read a few helpful tips when choosing your Las Vegas as your destination.


Keywords:
Recreation, gambling, travel, destinations, hotels, camping, wildlife, casinos


Article Body:
When traveling to Las Vegas it is important to check all kinds of different things, including hotels, hiking, recreation and entertainment for the whole family. Las Vegas was for a long time the adults playground.  Las Vegas was and is the gambling and drinking capitol of the world, and it was just about as Wild West as you could get in the twentieth century.  But in the last 20 years Las Vegas has changed into a large amusement park for the whole family. There is such a wide variety of things to do inside and outside of Las Vegas apart from gambling, that it would be a shame to pass up the opportunity to see some of the beautiful sites around the area.

1) Think location.  A hotel that is located directly on the strip will end up being much higher in price than a hotel just off the strip.  Really, glamour is nice, but saving a couple of extra hundred dollars in the long run will allow you the opportunity to do some great things that had not been originally accounted for.

2) Outside of Las Vegas are some very nice deserts and mountains.  Easy to get to and very close, it is nice to take a break from the gambling and partying to get out and visit a bit of nature.  Finding a hotel that is close to the Strip but also close to all the nature reserves is a big bonus that you cannot win at the casino.

3) Las Vegas is huge, and continues to grow, so trying to visit an amusement park on the outskirts from the Strip, may tend to be a bit difficult, so try to aim to be a little farther from all the traffic if you are not just gambling and are doing other fun things.

4) When searching for a place to stay in Las Vegas, you will find that in just about any direction there will be hotels in which to stay, offering a drive of less than 10 minutes to the Strip plus there is free parking at most casinos on the Strip for when you are going to gamble.

These are just a few things to keep in mind when traveling to Las Vegas.  If you are traveling with the family, you will want to remember that Las Vegas and Nevada offer excellent hotels and casinos as well as some of the most undisturbed wildlife and nature reserves and fantastic camping in the area.


