Title: 
Ibiza and its night life

Word Count:
363

Summary:
Ibiza is famous around the world due to its amazing night life, although it offers several other things as well.


Keywords:
travel, spain, europe, vacation, holiday, tourism


Article Body:
Ibiza is famous around the world due to its amazing night life, although it offers several other things as well. This island is one of the most visited ones in the group of the Balearic Islands in Spain, and maybe the one which attracts the highest amount of young people as well.

From June to endings of October, Ibiza's night life, as well as the rest of the attractions in the island, is at its best moment due to the fact that it is when the highest among of tourists arrive. This way, if you wish to meet the island when all pubs, discos, cafes, bars, restaurants, and all other spots are open, you should chose a date between those months.

Before planning a trip to Ibiza, it is important to consider the fact that during August, this island receives a great amount of tourists due to what prices tend to rise and it might be very difficult to find a hotel room available. This way, it is very recommendable to make sure of counting on a hotel room before arriving or trying to visit the island once it becomes less crowded.

There are several methods of transportation available for tourists in Ibiza. This island counts on an important amount of taxis as well as buses in such a way that going from one point to another should not be a problem. There also are several car rentals for those visitors who wish to rent a car, and in such case it is recommendable to make sure there will be one available at the time of visiting the town, especially if it will be during August.

Besides its night life, Ibiza also offers many other activities suitable for visitors of all ages and preferences. One of the main activities which attract visitors to this spot is going to its beaches. This island's beaches are extremely beautiful and allow tourists to relax, sun bath, swim, dive, and surf among many others. Besides this, those visitors who enjoy sports would be able to choose from a wide range as well since Ibiza allows them to practice biking, tennis, golf, and karts among others.


