Title: 
If you are going to San Francisco

Word Count:
544

Summary:
One of the most vibrant and picturesque cities in the United States, San Francisco attracts a lot of tourists every year. San Francisco offers a significant number of cultural attractions and world famous landmarks, all in the surroundings of impressive natural beauty.


Keywords:
hotels


Article Body:
One of the most vibrant and picturesque cities in the United States, San Francisco attracts a lot of tourists every year. San Francisco offers a significant number of cultural attractions and world famous landmarks, all in the surroundings of impressive natural beauty.

The first settlement here was built in the end of the XVI century by the Spanish conquers and received its name in honor of Saint Francisc. 

Now San Francisco is called the pearl of the Western Coast. It’s a unique mix of the old architecture (of the Victorian period) and the modern buildings. The city lies on the hills surrounding the ocean. San Francisco is on of the most poetic cites in the United States, the city of bohemia with its special fleur and atmosphere. The city has its nickname – Frisco. 

San Francisco is known for its wonderful food, intensive nightlife and its glorious views. Golden Gate Bridge is one of the world-known symbols of San Francisco and the view of the sunset is the best here. The bridge is 210m high. 

Every month of the year there is something interesting happening in San Francisco – festivals and different cultural events are carried out throughout the year. As for climate and weather, of course, summer months are the best choice for visiting this city, but you won’t mistake if you choose another season for traveling. San Francisco isn’t a cold city anyway.  The closest in time events - Holiday Festival: Great Dickens Christmas Fair, Celebration of Craftswomen, Holiday Festival of Lights, Marin Art and Garden Center and Macy's Union Square Tree Lighting Ceremony. All they take place in December. 

So, what else is worth to see in San Francisco? 

Except the above-mentioned Golden Gate Bridge another world famous symbol of the city is Alcatraz. It’s the rock with the former prison, which can be called the best-known prison on earth. This prison is situated on an island in the middle of San Francisco Bay. Now it’s a museum exhibiting objects made by notorious inmates, historic photographs and documents, escape materials and inmate artwork; items used by officers including correctional materials when Alcatraz was a federal penitentiary from 1934-1963; military prison period materials from 1859-1934; and the American Indian occupation of 1969 -1971.
Aquarium of the Bay is also a very interesting place for visit in San Francisco. It was opened in 1996. Now it’s a unique educational and entertainment facility dedicated to the rich and diverse aquatic life of the San Francisco Bay and its surrounding waters. 

One of San Francisco's main retail and cultural centers is Union Square. Set aside as a park in 1850 and named before the start of the Civil War as a tribute to the frequent demonstrations in support of the Union troop, the park got a major renovation and restoration in 2002.

Another sightseeing in San Francisco is Coit Tower. It’s 210ft (60m) high and crowns the top of Telegraph Hill. The tower was built as a monument to the firefighters of San Francisco.

To confirm the reputation of the intellectual city it’s enough to name Berkeley – one of the most prestigious Universities of USA is located near San Francisco.
So, there is enough to see and to take part in San Francisco – just don’t miss it!


