Title: 
It would take a lifetime to experience everything Alaska has to offer

Word Count:
482

Summary:
Alaska is a striking showpiece of nature at its finest: stunning forests, picturesque mountains, rivers and waterfalls, and an abundance of wildlife.


Keywords:
Alaska, cruises, holiday


Article Body:
Alaska is a striking showpiece of nature at its finest: stunning forests, picturesque mountains, rivers and waterfalls, and an abundance of wildlife. The season to visit is from May through September. 
The peak of the season, when weather is considered best (and prices slightly higher), is from late-June thru August. May and September can be cooler and wetter, but that's not necessarily the case.

Hiking
The beauty of Alaska cannot be put into words. It is full of outdoor adventures.
With over 1400 miles from north to south to over 2300 miles from west to east, Alaska hiking has some of the most incredible scenery to be found in the United States. 
Alaska has amazing trail systems for all abilities &#65533; from accessible nature paths to mountain hikes that are physically challenging. 
The Anchorage area offers over 100 miles of paved, multi-use trails and over 150 miles of wilderness trails, perfect for mountain biking, hiking and skiing. South-central Alaska has the most developed hiking trails in Alaska, with Chugach National Forest and Chugach State Park the most popular hiking areas.

Fishing
From the Southeast, to the world famous Kenai River, and into the country&#65533;s interior - 
Alaska offers some of the best fishing in the world. Enjoy struggling to land monster halibut or a mighty king salmon, or try your hand at fly-fishing for rainbow trout on a secluded stream. 
You can fish in Alaska from an ocean charter boat, take to a river by jet or drift boat, or fly in by bush plane to a remote lake or stream.


Kayaking
Alaska offers a wide array sea kayaking opportunities with spectacular locations such as Kenai Fjords National Park, 
Prince William Sound, Glacier Bay National Park and Kachemak Bay State Park near Homer. 
Here you will find an ideal kayak experience with calving glaciers, rugged mountains, calm protected coves and waters teaming with wildlife such as whales, sea otters, puffins and sea lions.

Rafting
Denali National Park covers more than 6 million acres, and is home to 
20,300 foot Mt. McKinley, abundant wildlife and some of Alaska's best rafting. 
Nearly all raft trips travel the Nenana River, which flows to the north through the Alaska Range and borders the eastern side of Denali National Park. 
The Nenana River offers great rafting adventures, from calm float sections to class III and IV white-water rafting.

Bear Viewing
Alaska is home to over 98 percent of North American brown bear population. 
It is no wonder that bear viewing is a popular visitor attraction. 
Bears are found in nearly every corner. Viewing a bear in the wilds of 
Alaska is a truly awesome experience, and often one of the highlights of the trip. 
Denali National Park is one of the most popular areas to view bears in their natural habitat. 
Each year tens of thousands of visitors board buses to travel all or part of the 90 mile road that travels deep into Denali Park.


