Title: 
Italy - Romancing with a Romantic City

Word Count:
685

Summary:
"There is no doubt that Italy is the most romantic place in the world. With its Victorian charm, old-worldliness and old-fashion atmosphere, it is not surprising that Italy is one of the top tourist destinations in the world."


Keywords:
travel italy,italy vacation travel,italy travel tip,italy travel,guide italy travel,romantic travel,romantic travel destination


Article Body:
This interesting article addresses some of the key issues regarding travelling to Italy. A careful reading of this material could make a big difference in how you think about travelling to Italy. 

There is no doubt that Italy is the most romantic place in the world. With its Victorian charm, old-worldliness and old-fashion atmosphere, it is not surprising that Italy is one of the top tourist destinations in the world. 

What is great about the country is the fact that tourist spots literally litter every corner of this small country. There are monuments, piazzas, fountains, churches and museums. From its capital Rome to Venice, Tuscany and Florence, there will surely be something that will capture your interest.     

Ancient Rome boasts of ancient structures like the Roman Imperial Forums, which includes the Forum of Caesar, The Forum of Vespasian, which is otherwise known as the Temple of Peace and of course the Forum Trajan, which has been greatly preserved even after several centuries. Overlooking the forums is the the Palatine Hills and the Palace Complex, where the greatest people in Roman history and Roman Empire lived. 

Besides the complex is the Circus Maximus, which was historically famous for having been a venue for racing chariots. This is also where roman emperors kept the citizens entertained by filling their stomach with food and their eyes with circus acts.  

Colosseum is another spot that you should not exclude in your itinerary. The collosseum, which can seat more than fifty thousand spectators, lie witness to a chapter in history where gladiators provided entertainment for a falling Roman Empire.  

Is everything making sense so far? If not, I'm sure that with just a little more reading, all the facts will fall into place. 

The Pantheon is another symbol of the Great Roman Empire. Commissioned by Hadrian, the temple boasts of a rotunda and a dome. This is actually part of the seven wonders of the Ancient World. 

Another great architectural work is the Castel Sant Angelo, which is better known as Hadrian's Mausoleum. More than just a tomb, this tourist spot provides visitors a panoramic view of the Tiber. In previous centuries, the Castel was also used by Emperors as passageways in times of danger. The popes of the Vatican were also able to use the tunnels as it connects to the Vatican. Speaking of Vatican, never forget to include St. Peter&#47977; Basilica and the Vatican Museums in your list of places to visit. Although the Vatican is technically an autonomous state, going there is relatively easy and cheap when you are in Italy of course. 

Palazzo dei Conservatori, a building constructed through the plans made by none other than Michaelangelo, and the Palazzo dei Museo Capitolino are two of the museums that you should visit. Both of these can be found in the Capitoline Hill, which was once a seat of power in the country. Even today, it remains to be the center of government. 

Italy also has lots of Piazzas, one of which is the Piazza Venezia, where you will find the Palazzo Venezia, a museum quite famous for its collections of works of arts in the medieval and the Renaissance period. There is also a shopping district in the area of the Via del Corso is only an hour or two away. 

Another beautiful piazza that you can visit is the Piazza Navona, where you will find a number of fountains including Bernini&#47977; La Fontana. There is also the Church of Sant'Angese, which you will definitely admire for its architectural design. 

The Piazza de Spagna, on the other hand, features the famous Spanish Steps or what is called the Scalinata della Trinita' de Monti in Italian. The steps lead to the church in Trinita dei Monte.
Another tourist spot that you should not miss is the Trevi Fountain. Legend has it that people who manage to throw their coins inside the Fontana di Trevi will come back again to Italy.
 
Don't limit yourself by refusing to learn the details about travelling to Italy. The more you know, the easier it will be to focus on what's important.


