Title: 
Jamaica Hotels and Retreats

Word Count:
439

Summary:
Jamaica is a legendary island in the Caribbean with more beauty than you can image. Visiting Jamaica retreats is one extremely relaxing way to experience the island.


Keywords:
jamaica, hotels, retreats, half moon, island, caribbean, vacation, spa, resort, massage, wellness


Article Body:
Jamaica is a legendary island in the Caribbean with more beauty than you can image. Visiting Jamaica retreats is one extremely relaxing way to experience the island. 

Jamaica Hotels and Retreats

Jamaica is an island destination known for its relaxing and romantic atmosphere. What better way to enhance your vacation here than to go to one of the great Jamaica retreats? The retreats on Jamaica are prepared to pamper you while taking full advantage of the great island, beach and ocean atmosphere. 

One of the Jamaica retreats you'll be sure to enjoy is the High Hope Estate, located near Ocho Rios in Jamaica. This inn has only five guest rooms, assuring that your vacation and stay here will be intimate and romantic. The rooms themselves are furnished with beautiful English and Jamaican antiques. The clinic at High Hope Estate offers such varied services as massages and the pampering Milk and Honey Wrap, sure to relax and rejuvenate even the most tired traveler. 

Another of the great resorts and Jamaica retreats is the Half Moon Rose Hall, in Montego Bay. This resort houses the Bodywork Spa, which has many different treatments and packages to indulge your senses. Their menu includes wraps, manicures, pedicures, facials, rejuvenation day packages and couples packages to create your own relaxation getaway. The Half Moon Rose Hall resort itself has many other amenities, such as an 18 hole golf course and shopping, even a children's center! 

There are many more Jamaica retreats to discover, including those at all-inclusive resorts. The Couples Resort in Ocho Rios, for example, offers many different treatments to their guests. Some of these include aromatherapy massages, Swedish massages and body polishes. There are also salon services available at the retreat for both men and women, making it so you never have to leave the resort for all of your rejuvenation needs! 

Another all-inclusive resort chain, Sandals, has seven different resorts located on the island of Jamaica. Most of them, such as the Sandals Negril Beach Resort, include rejuvenation clinics right on the resort property. The Red Lane Retreats, as the retreats at Sandals are known, offer such diverse treatments as the Salty Margarita Scrub and the Java Jive Scrub, along with massages and other usual treats. 

Jamaica is a great place for a vacation, and it's made even better by a trip to one of the Jamaica retreats that are available in the area. You can relax on the beach and then relax with a massage or facial, all at one location. Best of all, the variety of retreats here means that everyone can find a spot in Jamaica to suit their tastes.


