Title: 
Kenya Safari!

Word Count:
381

Summary:
“Safari” is the Swahili word for journey and what an unforgettable one this was!  Imagine being so close to a cheetah to count its spots, hand feeding giraffe and sitting on a sun drenched terrace as a herd of 30 elephants stroll by.  Each day a new adventure will unfolded.  Here  “nature’s museum” teamed with wildlife.  I am glad I had a chance to see this now, before it’s too late for the game to roam wild.  And October was the best month to go with the wildebeest still on migration.


Keywords:



Article Body:
I’ve toured 9 countries in Africa but something always draws me back to Kenya.  It is the core soul and heartbeat of the continent.  My past clients were profoundly satisfied classifying it “best vacation ever.”  This time with the addition of a visit to Jane Goodall’s Chimpanzee Sanctuary it was no different.  Africa is best enjoyed within the comradery and comfort of a group.  We had a marvelous adventure with our 2 groups of 90 people on the Kenya safaris over 2 two week periods.

It was brilliantly orchestrated and I as I moved my “troops” from Nairobi to Mt. Kenya, Sweetwaters, Nakuru, Lake Naivasha and Masai Mara.  Our suitcases swelled enroute with purchases of handicrafts nearly bursting our jeeps, but we moved well. 

Our deluxe accommodations of swimming pools pampered us in total comfort throughout.  It was a trip worth remembering.  The highlight was at the Masai Mara were we stayed in luxury tents with en-suite bathrooms (and resident monkeys) as well as a personal day visit with a Masai tribe and village.  
There were game drives each morning and afternoon to photograph an astonishing number of animals including the BIG FIVE: Lions, Elephants, Cape Buffalo, Leopards, and Rhino.  Seven guides in Landovers brought us so close it’s like a virtual Discovery Channel.  We’ll saw Mt. Kenya, The Great Rift Valley and Lake Nakuru colored pink teaming with a quarter million flamingos. 

We toured the Rothschild Giraffe Center, home of Karen Blixen, (author of “Out of Africa”) and a baby elephant sanctuary.  Other safari highlights included hot air ballooning, white water rafting, seeing a cheetah bring down a gazelle and witnessing the migration of about 20,000 wildebeest crossing a river of giant croc’s.  It was a spectacle right out of the Discovery Channel.  I kissed a Rothschild giraffe and petted a 2 ton rare black rhino named Ronnie.   It ended with a farewell feast at the famous Carnivore Restaurant.
This was a meticulously designed program with an easy air schedule and a leisurely itinerary.  Nearly everything is included in this budget price of $2500 including air!.  My words can’t begin to cover it all.  I’ve seen nature’s wild as it was meant to be seen.   A part of me was indelibly changed after such an amazing discovery.   Karibu sana!


