Title: 
Keystone Ski Resort Outback

Word Count:
342

Summary:
This article talks about the Outback at Keystone Ski Resort.  Be sure to read the article if you enjoy great sites.


Keywords:
keystone skiing, keystone outback, resort, ski lodging, travel destination


Article Body:
The Outback at Keystone Ski Resort offers amazing views and so much more. The Outback Express is the only lift which services this beautiful region which includes the north bowl and some of the best tree runs in Colorado. Conquest and the victory chutes are on the north facing slope of the mountain. This means the snow will stay relatively soft which makes it a lot easier to make those important carves through the trees. When you get to the top of the Outback Express, go left and you'll be guaranteed soft snow. If you go right on a sunny day, you'll be skiing on crust.<br>
The runs on the South facing side (right off the lift) are my favorite tree runs in Summit County. I suggest you wait for a powder day to experience the South side. The trees are so evenly spaced and the hill is at a favorable pitch. Out of: Breckenridge, A Basin, Vail and Beaver Creek, the Outback is my personal favorite place to ski in the trees.<br>
The north bowl is accessible by snow cat, it only costs $5, which I believe is quite reasonable for such a beautiful view of the continental divide. If you are interested in free you can always hike the peak which only takes one hour. You can also hike about 15-minutes and still get a fresh line of powder. Each run from the 15-minute hike offers beautifully gladed forest with a long traverse at the bottom. If you are snowboarding, be sure to get speed at the bottom.<br>
There is a great groomer which, runs right under the Outback Express ski lift. It has plenty of room for you to carve those gnarly turns. This run has a perfect pitch for moguls. Stay right at the top of the lift for a mogul field all the way down the right side of the groomer. These moguls are great to learn on. For the best skiing in Keystone make sure you head to the Outback. You won't be disappointed.


