Title: 
Let’s Travel Back to Mississippi

Word Count:
321

Summary:
It's time to travel back to Mississippi


Keywords:



Article Body:
It’s time to ad Mississippi back to our travel destination, for both business and pleasure. Katrina really put a wallop in the Mississippi economy so it’s time now to support the rebuilding effort along with the local economy.

If you are like me, you may find it hard to determine just where to go in Mississippi. Unlike New Orleans in Louisiana, or Orlando in Florida, Mississippi doesn’t have a marquis destination.  But, this is the good news!! It will be good for a change to travel to somewhere that is not mobbed with tourists our mouse ears.

Here are a few ideas:
Ocean Springs Elks Mardi Gras Parade, February
Parade begins on East Beach by the site of the former Ocean Springs Yacht Club and will go through downtown Ocean Springs and finish by the Ocean Springs High School.

Elvis Presley Festival, June
The Tupelo Convention & Visitors Bureau and the Elvis Presley Festival
invite you to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of Elvis’ Homecoming
to Tupelo, Mississippi at the 8th Annual Elvis Presley Festival!

The Great Mississippi River Balloon Race, October
Pilots compete in "Hare & Hounds" and "The Barge Drop" as they fly over antebellum homes and the mighty Mississippi River.

The Jimmie Rodgers Memorial Festival, May 
The Jimmie Rodgers Memorial Festival has become a showcase of talent for some very well known artist over the past forty nine years.

Neshoba County Fair, July
Political, agricultural, and social exchanges of knowledge and ideas.

Vicksburg Riverfest, April
Schedule of great events include a kayak race from Lake Providence to Vicksburg, the Alcorn Jazzfest, a block of activities for young visitors, and the chance to see everyone you know and everyone you haven't seen for a long time.  And bands and music all day long.

That will get you started back to Mississippi, there is a ton of information available at the Mississippi tourism web site at www.state.ms.us.


