Title: 
Liverpool City guide, including Liverpool Hotels

Word Count:
1232

Summary:
Liverpool is, of course, most famous for being the city that spawned
The Beatles. But there is much more to this fascinating city's past
than just the Fab Four. Recent years have seen extensive re-development
in the city and Liverpool is once again on the up swing in terms of
popularity.


Keywords:
Tours,Travel,Reservation.


Article Body:
Liverpool is, of course, most famous for being the city that spawned The Beatles. But there is much more to this fascinating city's past than just the Fab Four. Recent years have seen extensive re-development in the city and Liverpool is once again on the up swing in terms of popularity. The docks have been rejuvenated, there is a thriving cultural scene and the city is today renowned all over the UK for its nightlife. Once again on the up, Liverpool is well worth a visit for any visitor.

Places of interest:

WORLD MUSEUM LIVERPOOL continues to be a favourite with locals and visitors alike. From the creepy Bug House and brand-new Aquarium to The Natural History Centre and Treasure House Theatre, families will find enough to keep them coming back for years.

WALKER ART GALLERY is known as the National Gallery of the North. It houses an internationally important collection of art from the 14th to the 20th century. The collection is especially rich in European Old Masters, Victorian and Pre-Raphaelite pictures and modern British works.

MUSEUM OF LIVERPOOL LIFE Celebrate the unique character of this vibrant city and its contribution to national life in three fascinating galleries - City Lives, The River Room, and City Soldiers. Other galleries include Mersey Culture - from Brookside to the Grand National - Making a Living and Demanding a Voice.

TATE LIVERPOOL is housed in a beautiful converted warehouse; Tate Liverpool is one of the largest galleries of modern and contemporary art outside London. Home to the National Collection of Modern Art in the North with exhibitions from 1900 to the present day, the Tate holds regular introductory tours, exhibition talks and lectures as well as free family events every Sunday.

MERSEYSIDE MARITIME MUSEUM This award-winning attraction tells the story of Liverpool's seafaring heritage and the Merchant Navy, from its role in the transatlantic slave trade to obtaining one of the finest collections of shipping records in the UK

THE BEATLES STORY is where you can experience the greatest pop story the world has ever known; in the city where it all began. This multi-award winning attraction tells the personal tales of Liverpool’s favourite sons, including a full-size replica of the Cavern Club, Abbey Road studios, a walk-through the Yellow Submarine and The White Room. New sections include ‘Paul McCartney: The Solo Years’ and the ‘Living History’ Audio Tour featuring the voices of the Fab Four’s most influential figures.

Things to do:

Guided tours are a great way to see the city. Taking you to places and visiting attractions, which you might otherwise miss. From the Beatles to Cathedrals, Sports tours and murder mysteries, Liverpool is awash with outstanding tours each guaranteed to make your visit truly memorable. If you want to get the family out and about, and get a dose of history and wildlife at the same time, take a trip along the Leeds and Liverpool Canal. You can travel along the canal by boat or cycle or walk the canal path. Croxteth Hall Country Park is an excellent choice for parents who want to give the kids a run around away from the city centre. Or visit Chester Zoo and see lions, tigers and giraffes.

CROXTETH HALL& COUNTRY PARK is one of the major heritage centres of the North West. Visit The Historic Hall, Croxteth Home Farm (great for kids) and the Victorian Walled Garden. Entrance to the park is free.

CHESTER ZOO offers a fun and stimulating days out for everyone, no matter what age or ability. As well as 500 different species of animals and award-winning gardens, it offers first class facilities that ensure your days out really are as enjoyable as possible.

CAVERN CITY TOURS can organise day trips and weekend packages to suit every Beatle fan. You can even take a trip on the real Magical Mystery Tour. They also present the International Beatle Week Festival in August.

AINTREE RACECOURSE is the beloved home of the Grand National. Aintree Racecourse hosts a range of professional and amateur events throughout the year.

Food & Drink:

Liverpool’s restaurant scene has blossomed over the past decade with new eateries seemingly popping up overnight. The city's ethnic diversity has led to a wide range of dining choices when it comes to style. Being home to the oldest Chinese community in Europe has meant a plethora of Chinese restaurants, a significant proportion of which lie in the city’s Chinatown. However, one of the most impressive actually looks out over the River Mersey from a marvellous vantage point on Columbus Quay.

Blundell Street Restaurant (near Kings Dock) offers a modern take on the classic Sinatra-era cabaret lounges. International cuisine mixes with the best crooners in town to complete a very lively night out, so if you remember the glory days of the Rat Pack or simply want your meal to go with a swing then this is the place to go.

Sapporo Teppanyaki Restaurant is where the preparation of food is pure entertainment. Expert chefs flaunt their outstanding skills and creative flair to ensure that every meal is unique.

60 Hope Street has been voted Best Merseyside Restaurant of the Year four times. This haven for European cuisine offers modern dining at a very reasonable price, though you are advised to book early.

Colin’s Bridewell restaurant is set in an Old Police Station, Colin’s upstairs dining room is light and airy whilst downstairs, and five original cells offer the ideal venue for a private party.

Liverpool Hotels & Accommodation:

Liverpool’s extensive range of hotels, bed and breakfasts, guesthouses, and self-catering accommodation offer a wide range of style and price. Accommodation ranges from luxury hotels to medium-priced hotels, family-run bed & breakfasts and self-catering apartments in the city centre.

Park Lodge
The Suites Hotel
Aachen Hotel
Campanile Hotel Liverpool
The Feathers Hotel
Regent Maritime Hotel
Thistle Liverpool
Days Serviced Apartments Liverpool
The Dolby Hotel
Liverpool City Centre Premier Travel Inn
Radisson SAS Liverpool
Hope Street Hotel
Hanover Hotel
The Sir Thomas Hotel
ThrostlesNest Hotel

Entertainment

In a city with such a wealth of musical achievement, you would expect a dazzling, diverse and vibrant nightlife. And that's exactly what Liverpool offers. Performing arts in Liverpool have a renowned reputation and famous city theatres have hosted performances by writers, directors, actors and actresses who have gone on to become world-famous names in the world of theatre, film and television.

FACT (a centre for Film, Art and Creative Technology) is located in the centre of one of the city's growing nightlife scene. The specially and strikingly designed building houses cinemas, studios and other venues giving Liverpool another state-of-the-art performing arts venue and creative centre.

ALBERT DOCK WATERFRONT complex contains bars, restaurants and club venues including an award-winning comedy club and other venues popular with soccer stars, local television personalities and other celebrities.
LIVERPOOLEMPIRE THEATRE is the largest two-tier theatre in the UK and still leads the way, with one sell-out performance after another.

LIVERPOOL PHILHARMONIC HALL is the home to the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra and a broad spectrum of rock, jazz, world, contemporary music and comedy. Watch classic films on its unique Walturdaw rising cinema screen.

Liverpool is full of tradition. Music, Maritime and Sporting history dominates this city. Add this to the cultural history on show and the regeneration that has made it the European City of Culture for 2008 this is a city that cannot be missed.


