Title: 
LONDON ATTRACTIONS

Word Count:
302

Summary:
Are you planning a trip to London?  Here is everything you need to know about London.


Keywords:
London, England, London travel, Europe


Article Body:
LONDON ATTRACTIONS


London is Europe's largest city, spanning more than six hundred 
and twenty square miles from its heart on the River Thames.  
London is Europe's most diverse metropolises: there are around 
two hundred languages spoken within its confines, and more than 
thirty percent of the population is made up of first, second and 
third generation immigrants. 


Despite Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish transference, London is 
still where the country's news and money are made.  London is 
where the central government resides and where unsophisticated 
life begins.  Londoners' sense of superiority causes enormous 
resentment in the regions, but it is undeniable that the capital has 
a great measure of success in most walks of British life.


Most of the major attractions in Europe is located in London.  
London boasts four World Heritage Sites, 238 attractions that are 
free to enter (so there's nowhere else in the world where you can 
see so much for so little). Visit the many museums and castles that 
the city has to offer. 


About thirty percent of London is open space; the other areas are 
filled with one of the 143 registered parks and gardens.  Many of 
the parks have short walking paths and nature trails can be found 
in places like Hampstead Heath and Mile End Park, so let us put on 
our walking shoes and go for a stroll, take a picnic lunch for the 
end of your walk. 


The National Gallery houses paintings ranging from 1250 to 1900, 
including the works of Leonardo da Vinci, Rembrandt, Van Gogh, 
Botticelli, Gainsborough, Turner, Cezanne along with other great 
works. 


The British Museum exhibits the works of man from primitive to 
modern times with a collection from all around the world.  The 
Rosetta stone, sculptures from the Parthenon and the Portland 
Vase are included in this museum.


