Title: 
Los Angeles

Word Count:
303

Summary:
Are you planning a trip to LA?  There is lot to see and do in the vibrant city of Los Angeles.  The link below can tell you everything you need to know about visiting Los Angeles.


Keywords:
Los Angeles, LA, Universal Studios, Rodeo Drive


Article Body:
LOS ANGELES a metropolis, which spans across a thousand square 
miles of the great desert basin, mixed together with congested 
freeways that run between the ocean and the mountains. 

LA is still considered a young city.  In the mid-nineteenth century, it 
was a community of white American immigrants, poor Chinese 
laborers, and wealthy Mexican ranchers, with a population of less 
than fifty thousand.  Definitely, a difference from what it is now.  LA 
is known for it shopping malls, palm trees, and swimming pools.  
The celluloid self-image of Los Angeles is known all over the world. 

The first-time visitor to Los Angeles may well find it to be thrilling 
and threatening in equal proportions.  It is a very fast-paced city 
and it will pick you up and sweep you along whether you want it to 
or not.  While Los Angeles has many fine-art museums, California 
cuisine and a few old-fashioned urban plazas, what people really 
come here for is to experience the city that has come to epitomize 
the American Dream.  This is where teens come to try to become 
actors and stars. 

Recommendation for first time visitors is to visit places such as 
Universal Studios, Mann's Chinese Theatre, Venice Beach 
Boardwalk, Watt's Towers, Melrose Avenue, Rodeo Drive, Walt 
Disney Concert Hall, and let us not forget about the amusement 
parks such as Knott's Berry Farm, Magic Mountain, and Disneyland. 

With all the entertainment available in Los Angeles, you are sure 
to see a Celebrity or two while you are out and about.  There are 
many things to do in LA, how about just hanging out at the beach 
and relaxing or surfing in the Pacific Ocean.  Many things are within 
driving distance from LA as well. 

Check with your local travel agency for excellent packages to the 
Los Angeles area.


