Title: 
Make Your Honeymoon Holidays in Munnar, Kerala

Word Count:
552

Summary:
Munnar – a breathtaking beautiful and pleasing hill station – a haven of peace and serenity – is the idyllic honeymoon destination in the God’s Own Country – Kerala, India. This beautiful city of Munnar is situated at sangam (confluence) of three mountain streams – Mudrapuzha, Kundala and Nallathanni. This small but picturesque hill town of Munnar is famous among honeymooners and tourists from all over the world for its cool climate, cozy weather, picturesque landscapes.


Keywords:
Kerala tour package, Kerala tours, Kerala honeymoon tours, honeymoon packages


Article Body:
Munnar – a breathtaking beautiful and pleasing hill station – a haven of peace and serenity – is the idyllic honeymoon destination in the God’s Own Country – Kerala, India. This beautiful city of Munnar is situated at sangam (confluence) of three mountain streams – Mudrapuzha, Kundala and Nallathanni. This small but picturesque hill town of Munnar is famous among honeymooners and tourists from all over the world for its cool climate, cozy weather, picturesque landscapes, tea plantations, natural beauty, etc. Munnar tour has top priority on the itinerary of Kerala tours. Exploring beautiful landscapes and exceptional natural beauty of the city of Munnar provides a pleasant travel experience. Tourists never for get to visit Munnar during their Kerala tours to India. 

Munnar is one of the most popular honeymoon and summer gateways of India. The home of exceptional natural beauty and unique flowers, the city offers true honeymoon ambiance for nature lovers and honeymooners. In fact, the city is a paradise for nature lovers and honeymooners. Every year a large gathering of tourists and honeymooners during the summer visit this beautiful land of Munnar, Kerala, India. It is a dream Kerala honeymoon destination which provides honeymooners true essence of Kerala honeymoon tour. You too should not forget to explore the picturesque hill town of Munnar during your Kerala tours, India.

Have a dream Kerala honeymoon holidays in the picturesque hill town of Munnar. Hold the hand of your loved one in your hand and explore scenic beauty of the town and get pleased with the sweet fragrance coming from the Munnar tea plantations. Visit the Anaimudi peak with your loved one where you will find exceptional natural beauty and rare Neelakurunji flower that blooms one in 12 years. Let the colonial aura, romantic ambiance, fresh & cool breeze, pristine nature beauty enter into your sprits on your Munnar honeymoon tour in Kerala, South India. 

On your Kerala honeymoon tours to Munnar you will also have wonderful opportunity to visit Attukal, Kuthumakal Waterfalls, Observatory hills, Echo Point, Powerhouse waterfalls, Eravikulam National Park, Kundala, Devikulam, Lock heart gap, Tea & Coffee plantations, Rajamala wildlife sanctuary, Kalvari mount, Valara waterfall, etc. Munnar honeymoon tours to Kerala also provide opportunity to indulge in some adventurous opportunity. Try catching fish with your loved one. Enjoy boat ride with your spouse and say sweet nothing in the ear of your spouse. Enjoy paragliding with you life partners. Surely, adventurous sports will be a unique experience of your Kerala honeymoon package in the picturesque hill town of Munnar. While you are in Kerala honeymoon tour don’t miss to grab opportunity to visit Munnar and explore its beautiful attractions. 

In fact, Munnar has a special charm to offer honeymooners or newly-wedded couples during their Kerala honeymoon tours. Gifted with exceptional natural beauty and dotted with beautiful lakes, lovely  mountain streams, wooded valley, wavy grass hills, and several tea plantations this beautiful hill town of Munnar provides a pleasant & romantic ambiance for making honeymoon in Kerala, India. Munnar honeymoon tour to Kerala is considered as one of the most special and truly fabulous Kerala honeymoon packages. If you too have decided to celebrate your honeymoon holidays in Munnar, Kerala, it is advisable that book your Kerala tour package, well in advance, for Munnar so that you can travel in Munnar in more and more convenient ways.


