Title: 
Malaysia Wellness Retreats

Word Count:
411

Summary:
Much of Asia is a tropical and travel delight given the beautiful scenery and cheap prices. A Malaysia wellness retreat is a tremendous experience everyone should try.


Keywords:
malaysia, wellness, retreat, asia, burau bay, island, langkawi, datia, gem wellness, massage, spa


Article Body:
Much of Asia is a tropical and travel delight given the beautiful scenery and cheap prices. A Malaysia wellness retreat is a tremendous experience everyone should try.

Malaysia Wellness Retreats

If you're traveling in Asia, you might be looking for a great place to relax and rest from your vacation. A Malaysia wellness retreat might just be the thing you're looking for. Many of the world's greatest rejuvenation clinics are located in Malaysia or the countries surrounding, and these retreats all cater to the world traveler. 

One such Malaysia wellness retreat is the Berjaya Langkawi Beach Resort, located in Burau Bay, Malaysia. This retreat, open since 1987, has long been considered a tropical holiday paradise as well as a great rejuvenation destination. The Berjaya Lankawi Resort offers 388 rooms, which are housed in Malaysian-style chalets and suites, spread over 70 acres of land. The rejuvenation clinic itself is the first complete retreat situated on the island of Langkawi, and it offers a complete range of services to its guests. 

Another Malaysia wellness retreat located on the island of Langkawi in Malaysia is The Datai. This destination, which is situated at the northwestern tip of Langkawi, has won many awards for its relaxation and rejuvenation services, including being named the seventh best retreat (in the top 25) as voted on by Conde Nast Traveler readers. It offers such exotic items as their body elixir, beauty rituals (these include Shirodhara, a mind and body treatment with hot oil drip), and facials and other beauty remedies using products from Decleor.  

A third Malaysia wellness retreat is the Gem Wellness Island Resort. This resort is located on a private island (the only one in Malaysia), and there is only one rejuvenation clinic on the island. The private island of Marang is located in Terengganu, Malaysia, which has its own airport and is easily accessible. The spa at the Gem Resort is named Tusita, and it offers an array of different "therapies", including traditional Malay treatments and oil therapies. There are even packages that include snorkeling and scuba experiences on the resort as well.  

No matter which Malaysia wellness retreat you choose to visit, you'll find the atmosphere relaxing, healing and exotic. Combine your treatments with water activities and traditional Malaysian events, and you'll definitely have a trip to remember. Malaysia is often frequented by English speaking people, so you'll have no problem communicating. That is, if you even feel like talking after enjoying your relaxing treatments here in paradise!


