Title: 
Manchester City guide, including Manchester Hotels

Word Count:
1394

Summary:
Manchester is one of the most vibrant and dynamic places in the UK.
Here you will find a wonderful variety of things to see, do and
experience, whether you are shopping, eating out, enjoying outdoor
activities or anything in-between.


Keywords:
Tours,Travel,Reservation.


Article Body:
Manchester is one of the most vibrant and dynamic places in the UK. Here you will find a wonderful variety of things to see, do and experience, whether you are shopping, eating out, enjoying outdoor activities or anything in-between. Manchester has been recently transformed thanks to the investment made for the highly successful hosting of the 2002 Commonwealth Games. Manchester not only gained a brand new stadium, but also plenty of modern architecture, fantastic shopping facilities, some great hotels and a bustling nightlife including a thriving student and gay scene. All this makes Manchester an exciting city to discover.

Places of interest:

Manchester holds galleries, museums, sculpture trails, architecture and glorious countryside to name just a few of the many exciting places to visit. While you are discovering the stories and treasures of all ten districts of Manchester you will enjoy a feast of sightseeing and things to do.

The Lowry is undoubtedly one of the most visited galleries in Manchester. The Lowry building has a spectacularly modern design is every bit as fascinating as the varied art collection it holds and hence is a real source of local pride. It is named after the artist LS Lowry and there is a very fine collection of his drawings and paintings on display. The Lowry is also hosts two theatres and various shops, bars and restaurants.

Manchester Art Gallery is a must for art lovers. The gallery has an internationally respected collection of art ranging from the early Dutch and Italian masters, through to the likes of Gainsborough and Constable. There is also a display of decorative art including ancient Roman earthenware to contemporary furniture, providing something for all taste to enjoy.

Manchester United is one of the most well known football teams in the world. To find out more about this club visit their museum and take part in the guided tour. It is open most days, but there are certain restrictions on match days.

Museum of Science & Industry is where you will discover all the interesting facts about Manchester’s role in the industrial revolution and get the chance to see steam engines and locomotives, to modern day aircraft and star gaze in the planetarium.

Urbis is set in a dramatic glass building rising high above the centre of Manchester. An interactive exhibition will lead you on a journey exploring life in different cities around the world. With four cascading exhibition floors to explore you need to allow at least ninety minutes for your visit.

Things to do:

In Manchester you will find all the shops you could ever desire and a few more besides. Acting as the Gateway to the North, Manchester also provides a perfect base to explore many of the North's attractions and is within easy reach of Blackpool, the historic city of Chester and only a few hours' drive to the Lake District, and the Yorkshire Dales.

Heaton Hall and Park is one of Manchester's principal parks and is less than four miles from the city centre. Its rolling scenery provides an attractive setting for a wide range of leisure activities which cater for visitors of all ages. It is also plays host to many outdoor events, like summer fun days, theatrical productions, concerts and other major events.

East Lancashire Steam Railway is journey back in time. It was opened in 1846 to link the Manchester to Bolton line with Radcliffe and was a popular passenger and freight route until 1972. The East Lancashire Preservation Society, with assistance from Bury and Rossendale Councils, saw the line reopened in 1991. The traditional station buildings and developments along the tracks have contributed to the Society being presented with a number of environmental awards.

Wigan Pier is situated on the banks of the Leeds-Liverpool Canal, and is one of the North West’s favourite visitor attractions. At the heart of the centre is an authentic recreation of life in the 1900s. Here you can witness the Victorian way of life such as life below ground at the coalface and how the famous Lancashire pit brow lasses lived. In the ever-popular Victorian schoolroom you can experience the rigours of a strict Victorian education.

Trafford Centre is a place where visitors marvel at a whole host of shopping opportunities all conveniently located under one roof, with the added bonus of bar and restaurant facilities and a cinema for relaxation during an exhausting shopping trip.

Food & Drink:

Manchester has a global feel and flavours all of its own, and can boast of thirty different nationalities of the finest cuisine. Having restaurants and cafés flying flags from around the world. Manchester offers a mind-boggling range of restaurants, whatever your budget. Ultra-chic or reassuringly traditional, Manchester’s restaurants, cafés, pubs and bars offer rest and relaxation for all.

39 Steps is tucked away on South King Street and has quietly been busy making a very successful name for itself over the past 21 years. It specialises in providing an every evolving menu to make the most of the finest seasonal produce.

Le Petit Blanc Brasserie is one of a number of Raymond Blanc’s popular restaurants and like its sister establishments has a good reputation for serving up quality food in suitably elegant surroundings. The well-priced set menu will not break the bank.

The River Room Marco Pierre White is situated with the very chic and sophisticated Lowry Hotel. Like the hotel the restaurant is highly elegant, as is the food which is widely considered to be some of the very best, if not the best in Manchester, with the added bonus of great views out across the river. This restaurant is both the ideal setting for an important business lunch, or a romantic dinner for two.

Bulls Head is conveniently located right by the Manchester Piccadilly railway station and describes itself as ‘Your local in the heart of the city.’ It’s a fine example of a good old-fashioned city pub offering an excellent selection of real ales and basic pub food including sandwiches, jacket potatoes and burgers.
Lass O’Gowrie is a particular favourite with real ale fan thanks to a range of ever-changing cask beers on offer as well as boasting its own brewery. It is also a hit with the local student population, who come here to dine on the simple and reasonably priced food such as chilli and lasagne.

Waxy O’Connors is a popular Irish pub and is a labyrinth of different rooms set across four levels. This is not the place for a quiet drink. It is a lively pub with live bands twice a week; as well as showing live sporting events on its big screen. There is a wide choice of both wine and beer and the food comes in the form of dishes as varied as traditional Irish stew, fish and chips and seafood chowder.

Manchester Hotels & Accommodation:

What ever you are looking for, from a quiet guest house, or a large conference centre, there is accommodation to suit all tastes and pockets in Manchester.

Britannia Sachas Hotel
The Britannia Country House Hotel
Fairways Lodge & Leisure Club, Formerly The Villag
Express by Holiday Inn Manchester East
Best Western Willowbank Hotel Manchester
Jarvis Piccadilly Hotel
The Grafton Hotel
Eleven Didsbury Park
Monton House Hotel
Novotel Hotel
Didsbury House
Chesters Hotel & Restaurant
Copperheads Hotel
Mitre Hotel
Thistle Manchester
Novotel Manchester Centre
Radisson Edwardian Manchester
Arora International Manchester
Premier Apartments Manchester (Opening April 6)

Entertainment

Manchester is the life and soul of the region with more theatres than any other UK city outside London, a wide range of live music venues, two internationally renowned orchestras and a music and club scene of world-wide fame. You'll never be stuck for something to entertain you in Manchester.

Manchester Evening News Arena is one of the best venues in the South East. The programme boasts an excellent line up of comedy, music, dance & theatre.
Lowry Red Cinema entertains you with high quality contemporary dance, drama, visual arts, films, comedy, music et al.
G-Mex is a great venue for music, comedy, cabaret and theatre.

With so much variety available whatever your requirements for a short break you cannot go wrong with using the exciting city of Manchester as a base. With history, culture, sport and scenery all available within easy reach and a choice of restaurants and bars where to end a day, why not give Manchester a visit.


