Title: 
Maui Vacation Resorts - Which Do You Choose?

Word Count:
445

Summary:
You've finally made that big decision on where you want to go for your next vacation! Mexico? Caribbean? Europe? Nope...you've decided to visit the number one rated vacation island in the world. Look out Maui, here we come!

Now that you have made that big decision to take a Maui vacation, it is time to decide where you are going to stay. Is there really a difference in the quality of resorts on Maui? Actually, there is a BIG difference between Maui resorts but it's not nec...


Keywords:
maui,maui vacation,maui resort,maui condo


Article Body:
You've finally made that big decision on where you want to go for your next vacation! Mexico? Caribbean? Europe? Nope...you've decided to visit the number one rated vacation island in the world. Look out Maui, here we come!

Now that you have made that big decision to take a Maui vacation, it is time to decide where you are going to stay. Is there really a difference in the quality of resorts on Maui? Actually, there is a BIG difference between Maui resorts but it's not necessarily the quality of the resorts. Actually, the decision on which Maui resort you pick should be based more on what type of experience you want to have during your Maui vacation!

You need to ask yourself several important questions regarding the type of Maui resort where you want to stay. They are...

Do you want to stay in a hotel or a condo. If you are planning on doing some cooking while you are on your Maui vacation, you will probably want to rent a condo.

Are you going to spend all your time away from the condo and you just, basically, want a place to sleep or do you plan to spend time relaxing at the resort and taking it easy?

Do you want the Maui resort to be right on the ocean or is a short walk to the beach okay?

Do you want the Maui resort to be in a specific location such as Napili, Kahana, Lahaina, Kihei or Wailea?

What kind of view do you want from your Maui resort condo? Do you want ocean front, ocean view, garden view or mountain view?

What is your budget?

Those are just a few of the questions you need to ask yourself before you go on your Maui vacation. Each one of those questions will have an effect how much you pay for your condo! There are other factors to be considered but that will give you somewhere to start.

Most people don't understand that careful planning prior to their Maui vacation can save them quite a bit of money. Depending on the length of time you are planning on staying on Maui, you could save $1,000 or more!

Which Maui resort is the best place to stay? I have been asked that question thousands of times and my answer is always the same. Tell me what kind of experience you want from your Maui vacation and I will tell you which resort would be the best!

Remember, careful planning can ensure you bring back wonderful memories from your Maui vacation. Take the time and effort to plan in advance and you certainly won't regret it!


