Title: 
Maui Vacations

Word Count:
337

Summary:
Maui is a wonderful place to visit!  Maui offers beautiful tropical scenery and serene beaches.  Click on the link at the bottom of this page for more information about Maui.


Keywords:
Maui, Maui vacations, island vacations, tropical vacations


Article Body:
Maui has an incredible vacation landscape.  People love coming to 
Maui because of the resort areas of Kapalua and Wailea for golf 
and beaches.  They also like to take a drive down the Hana 
Highway for a romantic stay at Hotel Hana Maui.

There are three airports on Maui, Kahului Airport, Kapalua Airport, 
and Hana Airport, so getting there is not a problem. 

Hotels

Hotel Hana-Maui does everything right to make you feel welcome, 
relaxed and in touch with nature.  Room service was quick and 
efficient.

Grand Wailea Resort The hotel has one of the top beaches in the 
world, fabulous pools, and a great golf course with spectacular 
views of the ocean and Mt. Haleakala.

The Fairmont Kea Lani is a great place for honeymooners and 
family vacationers.  Situated on 22 landscaped acres facing Polo 
Beach, The Fairmont Kea Lani is a luxury all-suite and villa resort.

There are also several places that you can stay in Maui, such as 
vacation homes, condos and more.  Accommodations are never 
heard to find.  Most reasonably prices as well.

Activities

Taking a scenic drive is one of the more popular Maui activities.  
The island has an abundance of scenic views, ranging from tropical 
plants and waterfalls on the eastern end of Maui to desert-like 
landscape inside the Haleakala Crater.

Maui is famous for its golf courses, which offer scenic ocean views 
and well-maintained fairways.  Kapalua on West Maui offers three 
championship golf courses, including the Plantation Course where 
Mercedes Championships are held every year.

Numerous companies based in Lahaina on West Maui offer boat 
tours, such as glass-bottom boat tours, whale watching, fishing 
and snorkeling and scuba diving.  You can usually find information 
about these activities through your hotel once you get to Maui.  On 
the other hand, visit the historic town of Lahaina and sign up in 
person in the Lahaina Harbor.

Maui offers beautiful scenery, coastal trails, and mountain hikes.  
You can sign up for a guided hike through your hotel, or explore 
the island on your own.


