Title: 
Mexico's Unknowns

Word Count:
330

Summary:
Mexico... The place to party. It's the perfect destination to relax on the beach, barter with locals, drink tequila, and get a tan. For the most part, Mexico is considered a fairly safe place to visit if you will be in the safety of an all inclusive resort. This was the attitude of Pamela Woods, just 3 months ago, on her trip to Mexico which was drastically different than she expected.


Keywords:
travel mexico, new mexico, map of mexico, yahoo mexico, mexico vacation, cancun mexico, mexico city, albuquerque new mexico, santa fe new mexico, mexico flag


Article Body:
Mexico... The place to party. It's the perfect destination to relax on the beach, barter with locals, drink tequila, and get a tan. For the most part, Mexico is considered a fairly safe place to visit if you will be in the safety of an all inclusive resort. This was the attitude of Pamela Woods, just 3 months ago, on her trip to Mexico which was drastically different than she expected. 

I dont want to be costing the resort all kinds of money and give them a bad reputation, so I will keep the name of the resort confidential. But what I will tell you is the story of Pamela Woods. 

Pam is a family girl, as she is married to a nice doctor, and has 2 wonderful daughters. Her life went in a spin 3 months ago, during her visit to an all inclusive resort in mexico. One of her daughers, and her husband, drove down from canada, to meet the other daughter and herself at the resort. All was well when the family was together again, but the second evening of mexico wasn't so spectacular. 

Pamela Woods, mother of 2, was beaten and raped on the shores of the resort, by a local mexican around 7:30pm. She left her sandals at the beach that afternoon, and remembered to go and get them after dinner. When she didn't come back to the room, the kids and husband began to panic.

The threesome set out in search for her, and found her lying on the beach, bloody, bruised, and naked. This was a devistating trip for the Woods family.

This story is not supposed to be a scary or disgusting, it is intended to inform you tourists of the threats that are there, even in a 5 star resort. I'm not saying "Stay away from mexico", because it can be a fun time just take into consideration that the worst CAN happen, and it did to Pam Woods. Travel together, and never go out alone.


