Title: 
Mexico Vacation Rentals and Holiday Homes

Word Count:
551

Summary:
If you choose to go on a Mexico vacation, you're certain to find all the comforts you're used to at home. You don't have to worry about "drinking the water" today.


Keywords:
vacation rentals,holiday rentals, holiday homes,vacation homes,travel,lodging,condo,condominium,free advertising


Article Body:
With the beautiful Gulf Coast on one site and the Pacific Ocean on the other, with both ancient Aztec temples and gleaming modern buildings, Mexico is much more than just the United States' neighbor to the south.

Today's Mexico is still a land of deserts and mountainous plateaus; the smoking volcano of Teotihuac?n near Mexico City is echoed by nearby pyramids all the way down to the tropical wonderland of the Yucat?n Peninsula. But it's also one of the most modern cities in the world. The poverty level in Mexico has been slashed by over a third during the last few years, and their burgeoning trades with other countries are quickly modernizing the country. It may not be long before its equal in stature with the United States.

If you choose to go on a Mexico vacation, you're certain to find all the comforts you're used to at home. You don't have to worry about "drinking the water" today. Though the cities are crowded and traffic can not just foreign, but alien, culture has been exchanged between the U.S. and Mexico for so many years that you will find the people just different enough to be interesting. And while in some ways the U.S. seems tired of itself, Mexico is just the opposite: alive, young, vibrant, and filled with color.

Besides, Mexico has some of the most beautiful beaches in the world.

Baja California: The Land's End

With Cabo San Lucas and Tijuana, one would think that Baja California was developed out. But it is, surprisingly, viewed by most Mexicans in the same way Americans view Alaska: as a remote frontier, untamed and beautiful. But Baja is alien in many ways. It has beautiful expanses of desert walled in by harsh mountain. Lush semi-tropical areas dot the coast, and between them are hundreds of miles of untouched, undeveloped beach and coastline. In Laguna San Ignacio, tourists can view rare California Gray Whales when they migrate here to give birth and start raising their young.

For those uninterested in ecotourism, many of Baja's populated and more secluded beaches are perfect for baking one's body to the perfect shade of brown, or to enjoy some of the excellent hotels in this area. Alternately, beach houses and vacation rentals are a great way to spend a quiet, secluded vacation in an undeniable tropical paradise.

Cancun: The Night Life

But your perfect Mexico vacation might be more along the lines of finding the perfect cantina to sit and listen to music while looking at the other beauties Mexico offers. Cancun is the perfect place. With its blue waters and white beaches during the day, it seems tame; but at night, it lights up with the energy and the vibrancy of a very new city; Cancun is only 25 years old, in contrast with the Mayan ruins just a little further inland on the Yucatan Peninsula. Whether you like looking at old stones or tanned bodies, Cancun has much to offer its visitors.

There's much more to Mexico than its far northwest and far southeast. Thousands of miles lie between Cancun and Cabo, miles filled with adventure and fascination and glorious sights. But you'll never see it if you don't go.

Rent holiday home or vacation rental in Mexico and enjoy your stay!


