Title: 
Mexico Beaches – Playa del Carmen and Cozumel

Word Count:
358

Summary:
Mexico has beautiful beaches on both the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean. In this article, we look at two hot spots on the east coast – Playa del Carmen and Cozumel


Keywords:
mexico, mexico beaches, cozumel, playa del carmen, mexican riviera, hurricane wilma, dolphins, 


Article Body:
Mexico has beautiful beaches on both the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean. In this article, we look at two hot spots on the east coast – Playa del Carmen and Cozumel 

Playa del Carmen

With one of the prettiest beaches on the Caribbean coast, Playa del Carmen was the hidden gem of Mexico for years and years. About 10 years ago, the word got out and now Playa del Carmen is exploding. If you’re looking for solitude, this isn’t the place with cruise ships and so on packing the place during high season. On the other hand, this is definitely the place if you like a lot of “resort” in your beach vacation.

Playa del Carmen has a lot to offer to visitors. Of course, the beaches are beautiful and I highly recommend you catch the sunrise, which is some of Mother Nature’s finest work. Staying up shouldn’t be a problem since the nightlife in Playa del Carmen is plentiful. 

During the day, you can loaf on the beach or head out for some diving in the clear waters of the Caribbean. Should you get tired of the beach, you can head inland for some surprisingly quality hiking. 

Cozumel

An island off the Yucatan Peninsula, Cozumel is a slice of Caribbean paradise. With smooth, crystal clear waters, Cozumel has the white beaches you see in the Corona beer commercials. On the island proper, one can loaf on the beach, pursue world class diving or just loaf on the beach. Dolphin petting and sitting in the hammocks of Xal-Hal are touristy, but fun things to do. Although Cozumel is on cruise ship circuit, it maintains the relaxed atmosphere found in smaller destinations in the Mexican Riviera. 

Unfortunately, Cozumel was in the news through much of the last week of October 2005 because Hurricane Wilma pounded it. Given a few months, Cozumel will be on the mend and a great location since prices will undoubtedly be low to attract visitors. 

If you are planning a visit to the Mexican Riviera area, Playa del Carmen and Cozumel are definitely worth your consideration. Personally, I would pick Cozumel in a heart beat.


