Title: 
Mexican travel guide

Word Count:
524

Summary:
Mexican flavor of architecture, food and living has impressed people all over the world. Mexican culture and artifacts are famous around the globe and hence there is no better way to enjoy and become familiar with the Mexican


Keywords:
Mexican,Acapulco,Yucatan Peninsula


Article Body:
Mexican flavor of architecture, food and living has impressed people all over the world. Mexican culture and artifacts are famous around the globe and hence there is no better way to enjoy and become familiar with the Mexican sprit than touring the country itself. Mexico as a tourist spot offers wide range of geographical locations and country sites for a traveler to choose. The country touches the shores of ocean at many places and has high-rise mountains at other end. The region presents an excellent opportunity for water sports and deep-sea excursions and mountaineering.

 With fabulous hotels and exotic views to offer Mexico has also developed into a favorite honeymoon destination. Recently wedded couples find numerous getaways in this country. The cities here present a promising adventurous vacation. Among the all time favorite destination is Acapulco a place that has attracted tourists since earlier times because of its rocking nightlife and beautiful beaches. Apart from regular water sports cliff diving is an added exclusive special attraction of the place. Mainly well-trained professionals perform this art after the sun goes down and it presents a spectacular view for the tourists. With hotels having private and semi-private swimming pools to offer it has become a favorite for couples on vacation. 

Another very popular spot for tourists is the Yucatan Peninsula, which is famous for its ancient ruins of Mexican architecture and traditions. The geographical location of Yucatan peninsula renders it a perfect visiting area. Although the weather at this place in inviting all year round still the tourist attraction is maximum from October to June. 
Mexico is a paradise for water game lovers, sea divers, trekkers and other such activists. Apart from offering boating, rafting and cruise options for tourists every popular travel spots also have dedicated shopping centers. The shops offer anything from Mexican folk art, handicrafts depicting Mexican culture, jewellery, pottery, shirts and many other such options to take back home as a souvenir from Mexico. 

The prime religion in Mexico is mainly Catholics and this thought is well expressed by the spread of well-constructed cathedrals around the town. These cathedrals are masterpieces of architecture and exhibit a great deal about the rich cultural history of the place. While on the way through the city lanes the Christian archeological extracts are visible throughout the journey. Vacationing in Mexico with stay and sightseeing the trip may sometimes prove to be costlier than expected. Hence its best advised to preplan the visit and opt for an all included packaged journey tour in the country. The travel agents best guide tourists through most favorite hot spots among travelers and options that fit best within the budget. 

Night safari through the forests of the region is an added attraction. A safari on four wheeler jeeps through the mountains can well be an experience of lifetime. The best ways for touring the country is having a base destination at one place and then go touring other neighboring spots on short trips. Biking is another favorite activity in the region cycling through Mexico is so popular that anyone visiting this country can hardly avoid returning back without enjoying a bike-ride.


