Title: 
Milan travelling

Word Count:
530

Summary:
Milan is a city with diversities it offers a delightful experience for tourists with varied taste. Everything from modern art to contemporary architecture is the pride of city. In 569 A.D. Lombard’s conquered Milan and by the end of eighth century the bishops managed to compel an alliance with emperors.


Keywords:
milan, travel, fashion, ski, arts


Article Body:
Milan is a city with diversities it offers a delightful experience for tourists with varied taste. Everything from modern art to contemporary architecture is the pride of city. In 569 A.D. Lombard’s conquered Milan and by the end of eighth century the bishops managed to compel an alliance with emperors. During the earlier half of year 1000, the most powerful political figure in northern Italy was the Archbishop of Milan. By the year 1117, Milan managed to become a municipality and was at liberty from the clutches of Archbishop. Next it developed into a “Seigneury” from 1200, and gained increased importance as a major city in world. The city has been rising since then until lately by 1861 it claimed itself a place as the Kingdom of Italy. 

Milan is well known for stupendous art and culture heritage. The most famous National Museum of Science and technology, “Leonardo da Vinci” in Milan is among world’s best scientific and technical museums. A water stretch, Navigli in Milan allows navigation from Ticino to center of Milan. Navigli Grande and Navigli Pavese join Milan to Pavia and form one of the most charismatic spots in Milan. There are numerous roadside shops and clubs on the banks of these rivers. 

The place Brera in Milan gives almost the look and feel of Paris. It constitutes most fashionable spot of the city. The area is full of open-air shops that exhibit loads of apparels, all of which seem to be a sculpture on its own. The area includes Via Brera, Via Pontaccio, Corso Garibaldi and Corso Como, these places are also known as “luxury Bohemian”. 

A perfect place to pass free time in the laps of nature is a large fascinating park having meadows, little bridges and lakes located behind Castello Sforzesco. Another place of interest is the Milan Lounge “Galleria Vittorio Emanuele. Walking around the arms of this lounge provides a view of restaurants, boutiques, bookshops and old-coffee stops. 

Milan’s platter has witnessed a lot of changes. It offers every kind of taste ranging from Chinese cooking to Indian, African, Japanese and Middle Eastern cooking styles. Recently there has been increased demand for Milan’s original traditional food. A trip to Milan is almost incomplete without trying typical native food of the place. A classical Negroni is one of the many aperitifs that can be served with some snacks. Some of all time favorite conventional dishes of the place are Risotto alla Milanese, Cassouella and a specific Milan cutlet that has a very pleasing flavor. 

Milan is an ultimate for fashion freaks and a paradise for shoppers. The popular Fashion Quadrilatero form the magnificent shopping area. The place contains top showrooms and boutiques in world crammed with articles boosting of best designs. All eminent brands and labels on earth constituting of Chanel, Armani, Prada, D & G, Valentino, Cartier and many more have their magnificent outlets at this place. The streets Via Sant’Andrea, Via Della Spiga, Via Montenapoleone, Via Manzoni along with others boosts of having warehouses clustered in that area. Milan offers a never say enough attitude for every flavor of life and is a remains a hot favorite among tourists around the globe.


