Title: 
Much Art And More In Vero Beach

Word Count:
404

Summary:
Vero Beach Florida is more than just a beach city. Though well-known for its beach hot spots and tourist attractions, the city also values art. Indeed, Vero Beach can be considered as an artist's haven. Vero Beach's fame for offering the good life is owed greatly to the integration of a tropical atmosphere and the cosmopolitanism of a cultured city. Hence, it was named as one of the premier art towns of America.

The city exudes cultural wealth. The arts center which costs ...


Keywords:
Vero Beach Florida, art


Article Body:
Vero Beach Florida is more than just a beach city. Though well-known for its beach hot spots and tourist attractions, the city also values art. Indeed, Vero Beach can be considered as an artist's haven. Vero Beach's fame for offering the good life is owed greatly to the integration of a tropical atmosphere and the cosmopolitanism of a cultured city. Hence, it was named as one of the premier art towns of America.

The city exudes cultural wealth. The arts center which costs over $2 million dollars is declared the largest teaching facility and art museum in Florida. Vero Beach Florida's 630-seat Riverside Theater is located on Treasure Coast. Aside from being Treasure Coast's signature professional theater, the venue is also known for staging expensive and world class productions. The art culture started in Vero Beach since the early 20th century when artists, poets, artisans, and actors found their place and settled in the city. The botanical jungle garden was considered as a landmark in landscaping and was built and opened to the public in the 1930's by Waldo Sexton and Arthur McKee. Vero Beach's theater guild held their first presentation in 1958 and Riverside Theater followed suit in 1974. But don't get the impression that Vero beach caters only to theater or design artists, because in 1966, Vero Beach formed its own concert association. As mark of the citizens commitment to art, they raised and built a children's theater named after Anne Morton. As further proof to their value for art, most of these institutions were built by private donations with assistance from Vero Beach's local government.

Perhaps, it is the beauty of their own land that inspire Vero Beach's residents to create so much beauty of their own. After all, Vero Beach Florida is blessed with semi-tropical weather. This makes Vero Beach a suitable place for a variety of flora including tropical trees and even pines which normally thrive on colder regions. There are also extensive citrus orchards and national parks in and around Vero Beach. Flowers rage in Vero Beach, and since this is a beach place, towering palms dot the landscape. Surely, natural beauties such as these are enough to inspire anybody. However, if you're not the artsy type of person, there are still lots of things to do and appreciate in Vero Beach. It is after all, the Dodgers' home, and considered as one of the top diving and surfing spots in Florida.


