Title: 
Munich Hotel guide

Word Count:
412

Summary:
When it comes to touring the most popular cities in Germany, Munich is second only to Berlin. It is the largest city in the German state of Bavaria, and is one of the most prosperous cities in Europe. It has a population of just over 1 million people.


Keywords:
Munich Hotels, hotels in munich


Article Body:
When it comes to touring the most popular cities in Germany, Munich is second only to Berlin. It is the largest city in the German state of Bavaria, and is one of the most prosperous cities in Europe. It has a population of just over 1 million people.


The city is located near the Isar river and lies north of the Bavarian Alps. Compared to other European cities, Munich is relatively new, having been established around the 11th century. Many German kings have resided in the city, and Munich has been one of the homes of the Renaissance and the counter movement against the Reformation. 


In recent years, Munich has become Germany's center for biotechnology and other industries. Munich is a city which mixes the old with the new very well, and its citizens are known for their high quality lifestyles. Travelers to the city will find that there is much to see and do. The best time to visit the city is between May and September, when the weather is opulent.


Munich is the home of numerous museums. The Bavarian National Museum is one of the best places for exploring art exhibitions, tapestries, weapons, and other artifacts from the middle ages. For those who love German automobiles, the BMW museum is a place you won't want to miss.


If you would like to get a glimpse of Bavarian royalty, you will want to visit the Altstadt and check out the beautiful avenues and architecture. For those who are passionate about science and technology, the Deutsches Museum is a place where you will be able to view different types of gadgets and other mechanisms.


When it comes to dining, Bavarian food is very hearty and appetizing. Very few vegetables are used, and people who love them may find this to be disconcerting. Most meals are a combination of pork and potatoes with a touch of cabbage.


As with most cities in Germany, Munich can be expensive, and it may be best to bring ample amounts of money when visiting. Munich also holds many carnivals and festivals, and you will want to see them while visiting. Munich is also an excellent place for cycling.


If you enjoy sailing, you will want to take a boat trip on the Kleinhesseloher Lake, and you can also surf on the Isar river. It isn't recommended that you swim in the Isar due to pollution, but the Olympia-Schwimmhalle is a great place for those who like to swim.


