Title: 
New england travel

Word Count:
546

Summary:
Away from modernization and technical advancements in present America there is a place, New England best known for its rich historical importance and exotic natural beauty


Keywords:
new, england, travel, introduction, climate


Article Body:
Away from modernization and technical advancements in present America there is a place, New England best known for its rich historical importance and exotic natural beauty. New England plays a very important role in the making of what America is today. The history here is full of proud tales relating to revolutions and fight for independence of the country. Such powerful history of the region adds to the tourist attraction of this place. New England in presently well known for opportunities of outdoor games and activities that it offers. The location and geographical structure of the country makes it an ideal spot for water games, skiing, hiking, rafting, golf and many other physical activities. 


Almost all the cities in New England are famous for the facilities the offer for food, lodging, sightseeing, physical sports and a rich cultural extravaganza. Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Boston, New Hampshire, Maine are some of the more popular cities. Apart from the sports facilities New England also has a scope for nightlife, historical museum, and elaborate parks.    
The country offers mouthwatering recipes in its cuisine. The food habits are inspired by the ancient traditions but are well adapted to suit the modern platter. There are exquisite restaurants throughout the country to satisfy one’s palate. Adding to the attraction of New England is the shopping options presented here which makes it rightly a shopper’s paradise. Articles like jewelry, gift boxes, fine art, souvenir, prints and posters are all immensely popular at this place.         


New England has a well-developed air transport system connecting all its domestic cities, other important cities in America and the world at large. One can find a suitable flight schedule easily by checking with the air ticketing office. Even the airports in most cities of New England are very well equipped and cover a large area. Cities like Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Vermont and New Hampshire have wide opportunities for family entertainment. The amusement parks there offer great entertainment by way of kiddy rides, paddleboats, wooden roller coaster rides, etc. With such variety of attractions New England is a favorite of all ages be it an old, the adult or the young ones everyone can find a reason to cherish the place. 
 

The zoo, oceanic beauty and aquariums in many popular cities are an added treat for the traveler. The zoo here is amongst the largest in world and is inhabited by the most unique and very diversified animals gathered form around the globe. The sea creatures which one sees here is amazing, the varieties found are marvelous the sight beneath the ocean is beyond the visualization unless one actually visits the place. The beaches that extend to miles and offer an exotic view of the ocean are an added advantage to the popularity of this place. Symbolic of New England are the covered bridges that are great attraction for the tourists visiting the cities here. 


The rich history of this country also accounts for the grand museums and monuments located throughout the important cities. The museums and architectural sites are a proof for the countries rich historical background. A guided tour to any of these spots can well make a tourist acquainted with the customs, art and craft, military information and the architecture of ancient New England


