Title: 
New Year & New York City – You can save money.

Word Count:
412

Summary:
New York City is a city of spirit, heart and hard to decide for travel, even in the face of disaster. Home to such riches as the Statue of Liberty, 5th Avenue boutiques; the famous Broadway stages and the breathtaking Met, the Empire State Building, Central Park.


Keywords:



Article Body:
New York City is a city of spirit, heart and hard to decide for travel, even in the face of disaster. Home to such riches as the Statue of Liberty, 5th Avenue boutiques; the famous Broadway stages and the breathtaking Met, the Empire State Building, Central Park,

 

New York is one of the best tourist places in the world and in USA as well. Being the most excellent tourist spot the city New York has top rated hotels in USA providing range of facilities & various type of hotels,  well-located, the   finest amenities & services that make you feel at home away from home. 

 

In most of the cases specially while traveling to major cities & tourist places & attractions, the hotels close to New York City and near to any major & crowed attraction, the more money you can expect to pay to the hotel.  Here you have the option to choose a low cost hotel in New York.  One of the best option to save money is the stay with the hotel little far from the city like not in any posh area and try if you can manage with 2-3 star rating hotel in New York city. This will just save money for you.  

 

As far as the shopping areas are concern a number of shopping centers you can find around any hotel you choose to stay in New York, but here again you can look for the cheap & better shopping places little far from the hotel. 

 

We should always try to save money in all protocol while traveling to any city in any country and because sometime New York goes very expensive in seasons so this would be a good idea to choose the better place to travel with discounted cost if possible.  Instead of paying more money to guide or travel agent try to use the direct services from the hotel like book your hotel online and try to contact local person for more information, to find out the best shopping area, attractions and all you want. Stay in a comfortable hotel with low cost and for shopping you can choose some less crowed region, for travel you can select the city bus for New York city travel, and off course try to keep your money safe although the crime rate is not high in New York but still when you are saving money this is very important to keep this safe for future travel or for next visit to New York City.


