Title: 
North America: A World of Travel

Word Count:
507

Summary:
Spanning over 25 countries, islands and territories from the Arctic Circle to the Tropics, no other continental region is as uniquely diverse as North America. There are as many snowy retreats as there are beachside utopias; an abundance of modern metropolitan centers as well as a multitude of inspiring historic sites.


Keywords:
North America, travel to North America, discount airfare to North America, cheap airfare, cheap travel, wholesale airfare, North America travel information


Article Body:
Spanning over 25 countries, islands and territories from the Arctic Circle to the Tropics, no other continental region is as uniquely diverse as North America. There are as many snowy retreats as there are beachside utopias; an abundance of modern metropolitan centers as well as a multitude of inspiring historic sites. Canada, Mexico and the United States comprise the majority of North America, but the smaller nations of Central America and the Caribbean are also considered part of the enormous continent. 

Wilderness to Go Wild For
Many of the world’s most spectacular National Parks and protected wilderness areas are scattered about North America, as it was one of the last regions to be colonized by Europeans. Death Valley National Park, located in California’s Mojave and Colorado Deserts, is the hottest, driest and lowest (282 feet below sea level) place in North America, with summer temperatures averaging over 100 degrees Fahrenheit and annual rainfall under 2 inches. The best time to visit is mid-Spring when the weather is mild and the wildflowers are blooming. The soaring geysers and vibrant blue-green geothermal pools of Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, make it the ultimate destination for the nature lover. Herds of the once endangered North American Bison graze the rolling grasslands and the mythic Grizzly Bear forages through pristine mountain forests. Travel North America’s expansive protected lands and discover why this region is synonymous with the modern definition of wilderness.

Sandy Beaches, Cascading Peaks
Baja California is one of Mexico’s most beautiful resort destinations. The peninsula divides the tranquil waters of the Sea of Cortes to the East and the deep Pacific Ocean to the West. Baja’s subtropical tip is dotted with the popular vacation spots of La Paz and Cabo San Lucas. To the East, the Gulf of Mexico draws northerners and foreigners to the tantalizing white sand beaches and turquoise waters of Cancun, the Bahamas and southern Florida. North America also boasts an incredible collection of winter ski and snow resorts. For the thrill-seeker in you, the two top-ranked destinations are the ferocious pinnacles of Whistler, Canada and the intimidating jagged crest of the Grand Tetons in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.

Enticing International Cities
Travel North American cities for an intensely multicultural atmosphere, which blossomed from the tumultuous history of the region. The diverse ethnic makeup of cities like Montreal, New York, Chicago and Los Angeles has created profoundly rich art and music cultures as well as unparalleled international cuisine. Other cities like Mazatlan, Mexico and Washington D.C. tell a more intimate history of their specific regions through extensive museums, archeological sites and monuments.

North America is a bastion of fascinating cultural heritages, historic dramas and pristine wilderness. Nearly 40 million people inhabited the continent by the time Europeans arrived and there is evidence to suggest humans have been present for over 15,000 years and potentially as far back as 50,000 years. The blending and clashing of indigenous populations with sea-farers, explorers, slaves and religious refugees from the Old World has created the dynamic and wondrous landscape of modern North America


