Title: 
Off the beaten track in Spain

Word Count:
710

Summary:
A short description of some of the lesser known regions of Spain.


Keywords:
Spain, Galicia, green spain, holiday, vacation, rentals, villas, apartments, Castilla y Leon


Article Body:
Castilla y Leon

Castilla y Leon is the largest region in Spain. It is known for its vast expanse of plains and its many castles

Valladolid is the capital of the region and although it has now become quite industrialised it has one of the most important sculpture museums in Spain and some of the best architecture.

Salamanca is also a great architectural city and is home to one of the oldest universities in Europe, which was founded in the 13th Century as well as having two cathedrals.

Castilla y Leon is a beautiful rural region of Spain near to the Portuguese border and not far from the capital of Spain, Madrid. Look at our selection of rural rentals in Castilla y Leon.

Galicia

The area of Galicia "Green Spain" is in the far north west of the country. It is known as the 'land of a thousand rivers' and is the greenest region in Spain.

Santiago de Compostela is the capital of Galicia and its' main tourist attraction. The supposed tomb of St James the Apostle is to be found here in this beautiful city.

Many Spaniards are now visiting this area to get away from the heat of the south in the summer and to spend a peaceful holiday in sheltered coves with lovely beaches and to visit some of the rural areas where time seems to have almost stood still.

Vigo is the most populated city in Galicia and has the most important fishing port in all of Spain.

Asturias

The area of Asturias is found between Galicia and Cantabria. The coastline, the Costa Verde, is a popular attraction and has many sandy coves and numerous fishing villages. It is a very picturesque region. Inland there are forests and mountains and nature reserves with rare species of flora and fauna.

Oviedo (the region's capital) is a lively university city and culturally well worth a visit.

The temperatures here are much more pleasant in the summer than the hotter south of Spain, so if you want a holiday that has something different in a beautiful location, look no further than a vacation rental in Asturias.

Cantabria

Cantabria and Asturias are divided by the Picos de Europa, 'the Peaks of Europe', a beautiful mountain range and now Europe's largest national park.

In contrast with the mountains are the green valleys and wonderful coast with pretty fishing ports and sandy coves for sunbathing.

Santander is the capital of the region and is a busy port and an elegant resort. It has a modern town centre, after being destroyed by fire in 1941. The Cathedral was rebuilt in Gothic style. Just a short distance inland from Santander is the very pretty, medieval town of Santillana del Mar which is centred around a monastery, La Colegiata.

Extremadura

Extremadura is the ideal region for those wanting to get away from the traditional Spanish holiday and visit the real, old Spain.

The regional capital is the city of Merida, where one can find some of the best Roman ruins in the country, the Roman Theatre and the Amphitheatre should be included in any itinerary. T

he old walled city of Caceres has a well preserved Jewish quarter as well as Moorish walls and watchtowers.

Other historic sights are the monasteries of Guadalupe and Juste.

So if you fancy a get away from it holiday in this lovely inland region, why not book a vacation rental in Extremadura.

La Rioja

La Rioja is a small region in size but is very well known for its wine, vineyards and bodegas. It is, in fact, one of the most important wine growing areas in Europe. It does, however, also have an abundance of market gardens and wonderful countryside, ideal if you love walking, climbing, hiking or fishing.

The capital of the La Rioja area is Logrono, which is also at the centre of the region's wine production. Another town very popular for sampling the wine of the region is Haro, which also has an old town worthy of a visit.

The cathedral at Santo Domingo de la Calzada is an historic sight, the town is named after the 11th century saint who built roads and bridges to assist pilgrims. Much information be found about him in the cathedral.


