Title: 
Orlando Dinner Theaters - An Often Missed Must-See Orlando Attraction Guide.

Word Count:
761

Summary:
Take a break from your day's frantic pace in Disney World or Universal Studios with an evening adventure you are sure to remember for years to come. Orlando offers some of the most exciting and unique Dinner Theaters in the world. Do yourself a favor and book yourself a night of excitement on your next Orlando vacation.


Keywords:
travel, orlando, dinner theater, disney, universal studios, arabian knights, dixie stampede


Article Body:
You have permission to publish this article lectronically or in print, free of charge, as long as it is printed as is and the author byline is included. URL s must appear as hyperlinks. After investing all day in the hot sun to explore one of Orlando's Major Theme Parks (Disney, Universal Studios, etc.), take some time to sit back and relax at one of Orlando's fine Dinner Theaters.

There are theaters to suit your every mood - from medieval adventures, to magic and mystery to just plain fun and entertainment. Whatever theme youchoose, dinner theater adventure is an experience that you will remember for years to come. You will be able to sit back and enjoy a few hours of food andmemorable entertainment in a relaxing environment that is a welcome relief from the hustle and bustle of the theme parks.

Let's look at some of the more popular dinner theaters and learn a bit more about what you will experience at each of them.

Arabian Nights - Where fairy tales come true. This is truly a magical fairy tale on horseback and fully deserves its billing as Orlandos number 1 dinner theater destination. Be prepared to be thrilled and mesmerized as the tale of the marriage of a price and princess unfolds before your eyes. Be enchanted by the incredible displays of horsemanship and the colorful riders as they perform their tale of the Black Stallion. For more information about the Arabian Nights, call their toll free number at 800-553-6116.

Dixie Stampede - Dolly Parton had the vision to bring Dixie to the masses with this entertainment extravaganza and has succeeded. From its fabulous Carriage Room Opening Act to the main performance, the level of detail to the acts and the degree of fun is just tremendous. The venue is ever changing and offers entertainment by the greatest stars today as well as a stable of super talented entertainers. The main show is a marvelous fusion of animals and entertainers as they enact a high quality rodeo style event complete with a buffalo stampede, excellent and entertaining horsemanship and other highly amusing acts delivered in a high paced fashion guaranteed to keep you on the edge of your seat. For more information, call their Orlando location at
407-238-2777.

Mark Two Dinner Theater - Certainly not one of the biggest venues but one that is always varying its entertainment. Rather than adhere to a single format, the Mark Two has a variety of highly entertaining Broadway musicals that come through its doors. If you are considering a dinner theater experience while on your Orlando vacation, you owe it to yourself to call Mark Two at 407-843-6275 to see what their current show offering is before making your dinner theater choice.

Medieval Times - Medieval Times is more than a dinner attraction – it’s a window in time where the glory, chivalry, valor and honor of old burst to life in thrilling authentic tournament action. While guests enjoy a medieval banquet, six brave knights compete in games of skill astride magnificent Andalusian stallions. Lances splinter against shields of steel, broad swords spark and a champion emerges, to the cheers of the enthusiastic crowd. This is definitely a show worth seeing to get a feel for Medieval Life. Voted
"Best Dinner Show" by the readers of Florida Living Magazine. For more details, call them direct at 800-229-8300. 

Sleuth's Mystery Dinner Theatre - Enjoy a delicious dinner with unlimited beer, wine, and soft drinks while watching a hilarious whodunit with improvisation and audience participation. Mingle with outrageous characters! Observe anything suspicious! Interrogate the suspects! Solve the crime! For more information and show times, call 407-363-1985.

Pirate’s Dinner Adventure - Pirate’s Dinner Adventure is an energetic and adventurous, interactive dinner experience, captivating audiences of all ages. Set sail on the high seas on-board a pirate ship for swashbuckling thrills, combined with the perfect blend of comedy, romance, action and adventure. Enjoy breathtaking feats of aerial agility and spectacular musical talent as you dine on The Port of Call Feast. Pirate’s Dinner Adventure is a bounty of hidden treasure waiting to be explored, truly making it “World’s Most Interactive Dinner Show”. They can be reached at 800-866-2469.

With all these excellent selections, make your evenings in Orlando an adventure to remember. Good food, relaxation and an exciting show are just the thing after a day of touring the theme parks to recharge your batteries and get you revved up for your next day's adventures. Dinner theaters are truly one of the special memories of your Orlando adventure and a must do event in your schedule.


