Title: 
Packaged Trips For Families

Word Count:
462

Summary:
Let’s face the simple truth. About the only time you are going to get the family to sit down, turn off the phone and pay attention is on a family outing. A trip package is just the ticket to get this done.


Keywords:
family, families, trip, travel, package, packages, destination, disney, beach, resorts


Article Body:
Let’s face the simple truth. About the only time you are going to get the family to sit down, turn off the phone and pay attention is on a family outing. A trip package is just the ticket to get this done.

Packaged Trips For Families

Family trips can be expensive and hard to plan. You have to choose a destination, book flights or other travel methods, accommodations and plan for activities, all for a group. One way to beat all of this trouble is to purchase a trip package. That way, everything is planned for you – often right down to dining and amusement.

When choosing a package for your trip, be sure to research what is included. While some packages may include airfare, others may simply be for hotel rooms and dining. Also be sure to check age restrictions on your trip packages – some might offer free or lower cost per person for children up to a certain age, so this can factor into your choice.

A popular family destination for many is one of the Beaches Resorts. This resort chain is geared towards family trips, and is run by the same resort group that manages the Sandals chain (adults only). There are four Beaches resorts with three located in Jamaica: Beaches Negril Resort and Spa, Beaches Sandy Bay and Beaches Boscobel. There is also one Beaches resort on Turks and Caicos. All of the Beaches resorts, which are all-inclusive, offer themes and other amusements geared specially towards children and they have also teamed up with Sesame Street to have their characters available at the resorts. The all-inclusive price of Beaches resorts also means that you pay once and everything is taken care of, making for a great family outing that is stress free.

Another great package can be found at the Disney World Resort. Disney World, “the Happiest Place on Earth”, has always been a favorite family spot. Now, Disney World has added the “Magic Your Way” package to their offerings. This package allows you to combine your stay at any of the many Walt Disney World resort hotels (prices ranging from economy to luxury) along with admission to the Disney theme parks and dining options. Planning a trip this way allows you to know exactly what you will be spending for your days ahead of time and takes all of the guess work out of your stay.

Trip package deals are a great way to both save money and time when planning your next family trip. If you enjoy spending time as a group and want to be able to maximize your fun, a package can help you to do that without taking the fun out of planning. Just make sure everyone leaves their cell phones at home.


