Title: 
Paris: Eating Out

Word Count:
418

Summary:
No other country in the world enjoy mealtimes more than the French. With style and finesse, this national pastime unearths some exquisite dishes unmatched anywhere else on the planet. The top chefs parade round town like Hollywood movies stars, safe in the knowledge their culinary talents have blessed them with a lifestyle reserved for the rich and famous. 

Whilst eating out can be expensive, a little common sense can go a long way to saving you a euro or two. Every budget...


Keywords:



Article Body:
No other country in the world enjoy mealtimes more than the French. With style and finesse, this national pastime unearths some exquisite dishes unmatched anywhere else on the planet. The top chefs parade round town like Hollywood movies stars, safe in the knowledge their culinary talents have blessed them with a lifestyle reserved for the rich and famous. 

Whilst eating out can be expensive, a little common sense can go a long way to saving you a euro or two. Every budget is catered for in Paris, and should you wish to pay the same size bill as Brad Pitt then that can easily be arranged. However, avoiding tourist hotspots and seeking backstreet restaurants can yield lesser damage to your wallet. 

The Au Virage Lepic offers a basic menu, though the food is of good quality. The friendly ambience provides a pleasant eating experience, and all at a reasonable price. Diners chatter away, conveying their thoughts and episodes of the day, whilst waiters scurry around feeding their hungry guests. 

Chez Gladines is a snug little place, a real home from home. The informal atmosphere presents a more down-to-earth clientele, preoccupied with their delightful Basque dishes, washed down with the help of some fine French wine. 

Excellent food at a generous price can be found at Flo, an old-fashioned eating place popular with many of the younger tourists. The tight, elongated tables afford a more party atmosphere as diners and drinkers alike sit shoulder to shoulder conversing, as time passes into the early hours. 

For a vegetarian flavour visit La Petite Legume, a friendly little café to make you feel at home. The food is splendid and benefits from an organic slant. 

Drinking establishments are spread throughout Paris, providing for every taste and wallet. Though street side cafés tend to be a little expensive, the unique Parisian atmosphere rewards any expense, and no trip to Paris should go without this experience. 

Popular with the younger generation is the Café Charbon. Tranquil during day, the fashionable bar explodes into life come evening, as clubbers gather for early drinks and Dutch courage prior to their assault on the nightlife. 

Facing St Sulpice church rests the unassuming Café de la Mairie. Its idyllic location draws plenty of passing trade, all appreciating the warm and friendly aura. 

Low-priced beverages and daytime nibbles are aplenty at La Folie en Tete; the relaxed bar is a complete contrast to the vigorous street activities outside. Folk dash by, whilst the punters just sit and chill.


