Title: 
Peak 7 of Breckenridge Ski Resort

Word Count:
322

Summary:
Breckenridge, CO features world-class skiing & snowboarding, as well as luxurious accomodation and exciting attractions.  Breckenridge, CO has mountain terrain for people of all skill levels.  In this article, you will learn more about Peak 7 at Breckenridge Ski Resort.  Visit YourSkiVacation.com to learn more about Breckenridge.


Keywords:
Breckenridge, ski vacation, skiing in Colorado, Keystone ski


Article Body:
Peak 7 offers skiing for everyone. If you like extreme skiing, Peak 7 bowl is not accessable by lift but if you don't mind a long steep hike, peak 7 bowls are steep and mostly fresh. Peak 7 bowls are so steep and under the right conditions can be avalanche prone. Please be careful if you choose to go up here and always know your limits.

If you choose to hike peak 7 you will have a very steep climb with 
little room for error, especially on a sunny day when there has not been much snow. This climb takes you up 13,000 feet above sea level. When skiing at high altitude always bring enough water, because the air tends to get a little thin. Once you arrive on the summit you have three runs to choose from: magic carpet ride, cjs, and the Y chutes . All three runs are steep rocky and dangerous so pick your path wisely.

Peak 7 also features world class glade skiing. You'll see beautiful trees spaced perfectly throughout the forest which with the right skills, you can create a perfect line. When rideing the glades always stay skiers right especially at the end of the run. It is very easy to get lost in the trees so always ride with someone who is responsible.

Peak 7's intermediate runs are simply beautiful groomed runs which have great intermediate tree skiing with breathtaking views. Monte cristo, angels nest, and wire patch are all beautiful intermediate runs and are probably the finest in all of Breckenridge. You should definitely ski monte cristo and if you do, you'll get beautiful cords the whole way down, except on a powder day. Peak 7 is usually the last peak of the mountain to get traffic. So I suggest you ski there first thing in the morning. Don't get stuck here at noon on a weekend. The lift line tends to be pretty long.

Enjoy your ski vacation in Breckenridge, CO.


