Title: 
Pigeon Forge Attractions In Pigeon Forge Tennessee

Word Count:
446

Summary:
Pigeon Forge attractions in Pigeon Forge Tennessee can make a vacation in the Smoky Mountains one that will always be remembered. The Pigeon Forge attractions in Pigeon Forge Tennessee add to the fun and excitement you'll experience while vacationing in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park area.

Located about 7 miles from the Great Smoky Mountains National Park entrance in Tennessee, Pigeon Forge has entertained visitors for decades. It's one of the top tourist destinat...


Keywords:
pigeon forge attractions,attractions in pigeon forge tennessee,pigeon forge,pigeon forge tennessee,


Article Body:
Pigeon Forge attractions in Pigeon Forge Tennessee can make a vacation in the Smoky Mountains one that will always be remembered. The Pigeon Forge attractions in Pigeon Forge Tennessee add to the fun and excitement you'll experience while vacationing in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park area.

Located about 7 miles from the Great Smoky Mountains National Park entrance in Tennessee, Pigeon Forge has entertained visitors for decades. It's one of the top tourist destinations in the eastern USA and it's easy to understand why with all the fun things to do. What's so interesting about this vacation area is, no matter what your age, you will find so much to enjoy, especially during the busy summer months.

Here are examples of popular Pigeon Forge attractions in Pigeon Forge Tennessee:

Bluff Mountain Adventure - this Pigeon Forge amusement park consists of 7,000 acres with ATV trail rides, paddle boats, fishing and hiking.

Dinosaur Walk Museum - has the world’s largest collection of over 60 life-size dinosaurs and 20 reptile exhibits featuring some of the world’s most dangerous and venomous snakes. The exhibits are accompanied by informative and educational text that tells the stories of these incredible creatures.

Dollywood - one of the top Pigeon Forge attractions in Pigeon Forge Tennessee, this 118-acre park offers music, shows, crafts, family fun rides, and special Smoky Mountain and Pigeon Forge events.

Dollywood Splash Country - 25 acres of water fun including 16 water slides, 2 interactive children’s areas and a 25,000 square foot wave pool.

Elvis Museum - another of the more popular Pigeon Forge attractions contains the world's largest private collection of Elvis memorabilia including his cars, jewelry, clothing and guns.

Old Mill - over one million visitors enjoy this Smoky Mountain landmark each year, one of the best attractions in Pigeon Forge. The mill still functions just as it did in 1830, the year it was built. The mill grinds thousands of pounds of grains with every turn of its giant water-powered wheel that is in operation every day.

Veterans Memorial Museum - one of the most popular attractions in Pigeon Forge Tennessee, the museum includes over 5,000 exhibits from the Indian Wars, the Spanish-American War, the American Revolutionary War, the Civil War, World War I and II, the Korean War, Vietnam War, the Gulf War and the war on terrorism.

Families and groups love Pigeon Forge because there are so many activities that can be enjoyed together. Besides the Great Smoky Mountain National Park, attractions in Pigeon Forge Tennessee will keep the fun going for days. Whether you’re visiting the Great Smoky Mountains National Park for the first time or you visit often, check out all the fun that's waiting for you for your next vacation.

Copyright 2006 InfoSearch Publishing


