Title: 
Places To Visit In Dublin

Word Count:
418

Summary:
One of the most popular capital cities to visit in Europe, Dublin has many attractions for a mixture of tastes. There are many bars and clubs and is a regular favourite destination for stag weekends and hen nights. There is much more to do and see however in Dublin and this article gives a number of must see places to visit before you leave.


Keywords:
guinness, museum, Dublin, places, buildings, wings, zoo, Ireland, cathedral, gallery, collection


Article Body:
One of the most popular capital cities to visit in Europe, Dublin has many attractions for a mixture of tastes. There are many bars and clubs and is a regular favourite destination for stag weekends and hen nights. There is much more to do and see however in Dublin and this article gives a number of must see places to visit before you leave.

I am from England and I love to visit different castles. I think my favourite is Warwick castle, however Dublin castle is also impressive and certainly worth a visit.

The castle formerly under British rule for around seven hundred years, was handed over to the Irish free state in 1922. There are many features of the castle including:

The throne room

The figure of justice

The chester beatty library and gallery

Garda siochana museum

Bermingham tower room

If you like museums, The National Museum Of Ireland would be worth a visit. This museum is in three different parts and in three different locations. The three areas covered are:

Archaeology and history at Kildare Street

The museum of natural history at Merrion Street

In Benburb Street, there is a wider collection including the countries military and political history

Some of the exhibits at the National Museum Of Ireland:

Fonthill vase

Irish Silver

Viking collection

The road to independence

Prehistoric Ireland

The National Gallery is my next recommended place to visit in Dublin. There are four wings to the gallery on four levels:

The Dargan Wing

The Milltown Wing

The Beit Wing

The Millenium Wing

This gallery has a collection of historic and present day art and is situated on Clare Street.

Pheonix park is apparently the largest city park in Europe and includes the famous Dublin Zoo. Other features include:

The pheonix monument

Ashtown Castle

People's garden

Papal cross

A little note of warning, it can be unsafe to visit this park when it becomes dark.

St Patrick's Cathedral is the Protestant Church of Ireland's national cathedral and is situated on St Patrick's Close. There are many features to the cathedral including:

Lady Chapel

The Boyle Monument

Minot Tower

South Aisle

The Guinness Stonehouse is my next recommendation. People always say to me, when in Ireland drink a pint or two of Guinness. This brewery has an interesting exhibition which includes the brewing process, the history of Guinness advertising and ends with a little tasting, a free pint!

There are many other places and buildings to visit and I hope you enjoy your stay in Dublin.


