Title: 
Places To Stay At Virginia Beach On Your Vacation

Word Count:
459

Summary:
Virginia Beach is a legendary summer vacation spot for kids and adults alike. Given the popularity, there are plenty of places to stay for all ages and interests.


Keywords:
virginia, virginia beach, spring break, family vacation, vacations, chesapeake bay, rentals


Article Body:
Virginia Beach is a legendary summer vacation spot for kids and adults alike. Given the popularity, there are plenty of places to stay for all ages and interests.  

Places To Stay At Virginia Beach On Your Vacation

Virginia Beach is a friendly beach community situated on the shores of the Chesapeake Bay in southeast Virginia. This vacation spot is home to many Spring Break college vacationers, and in the summer is a great place to take your family for a beach getaway. There are many different types of lodgings to choose from when staying in the Virginia Beach area. Picking the right one can make sure that your vacation turns out just the way you wanted.  

One of the Virginia Beach vacation accommodations considered especially great is the Virginia Beach Resort Hotel and Conference Center. This hotel has 295 bay view suites with full-featured resort facilities. Also on the grounds is the Virginia Beach Tennis Club, which offers 30 outdoor and six indoor courts for those who enjoy playing the game of tennis. Water sports are encouraged at this beachfront resort, and there is also a complete fitness facility for use by the guests. 

If your idea of Virginia Beach lodgings leans more towards luxury and relaxation, the Founders Inn will definitely fit the luxury vacation bill. This inn offers elegance; both in their well-appointed guest rooms and restaurants. They also offer accessibility to golf courses and other Virginia Beach attractions, and a brand-new spa (opened June 2006) caters to those who want to relax and rejuvenate while staying in Virginia Beach. The restaurants here are first rate, and the Wine Terrace restaurant, located within the inn, has earned an award from Wine Enthusiast magazine. Special dining events and wine dinners also take place at the Founders Inn. 

A final look at the Virginia Beach lodgings brings us to the Ramada Plaza Resort Ocean Front. Located at the quiet northern end of the beach, this is the perfect place to come and relax with or without your family. There are 245 guest rooms at the hotel, and they all have private balconies or patios, so you can enjoy the beautiful ocean atmosphere of Virginia Beach. There are indoor and outdoor pools, a fitness center, Kid's Cove children's activity center, and even rentals of water equipment such as kayaks right on the property.  Restaurants are also located in the facility, and a shuttle to the beach is complimentary.   

Virginia Beach offers many different types of vacation accommodations to visitors and there is something for everyone at this seaside resort town. Whether you are into relaxation, water sports or even walking the Boardwalk, you can enjoy your time in this vacation spot and also enjoy your stay at one of the great Virginia Beach lodgings.


