Title: 
Planning a Trip to London

Word Count:
447

Summary:
A business trip to London takes quite a bit of planning.


Keywords:
london, business trips to London


Article Body:
Most people cannot say they know London well which makes planning a business trip quite daunting. To know London completely is impossible. Home to inhabitants for over 2,000 years now London has grown to a sprawling metropolis, the ideal platform for constant illustrious activity and business meetings. 

If you are travelling at the weekend a five star hotel in the middle of the city is available for less than one hundred pounds a night, and can be very quiet. During the week however it’s quite another matter. City hotels are notorious for being completely empty on weekends, hence the great rates. Tourists pay over the odds to stay at trendy hotels when they could stay at other places for a much better price. 

They key points to remember when planning a business trip are to make a schedule so you can plan your stay and to book into a hotel with all the amenities that you may require. It’s very important to book your hotel in a central location so you can reach your meetings and clients quickly and without too much trouble.

Make sure you have a guide book so you can find the best restaurants and bars to entertain clients and so you sound knowledgeable about the city and its heritage. You will be trying to make a good impression and planning is very important in meeting your client’s expectations.

Firstly you should find out exactly where and when you are conducting your meetings. If you need to book function or meeting rooms then now is the time to do it. Book a meeting in an upmarket central hotel and your client’s will be impressed.

Once you know your schedule you can book your accommodation in the best possible location. Make sure you visit the hotels website to see if they offer the best facilities your expense account can afford. Check the hotel has internet and fax facilities as well.

After you have booked the hotel it’s a good idea to look at some local bars and restaurants to entertain you during your stay. Maybe visit some restaurant review websites and book a table at a couple of the local eateries to entertain your clients and business contacts.

Travelling to London is quite easy but it needs planning. Whether you are getting there by car, train or plane you need to use the underground so visit the website and buy a tube map to help you.

In summary when you are visiting London you need to make sure you know where you are going and make good plans. Make sure you book a good hotel with the facilities you will require.


