Title: 
Portal Airdrie

Word Count:
257

Summary:
Airdrie is a city located in Alberta, Canada. It is just north of Calgary inside of the  Calgary-Edmonton Corridor. As part of Calgary's Census Metropolitan Area It adds to area's estimated (1,037,100 in 2004). Because Airdrie is a member community of the Calgary Regional Partnership, It also adds to that regions population of about 1.1 million. Due to Airdrie's close proximity to Calgary, their has been...


Keywords:
Portal Airdrie


Article Body:
Airdrie is a city located in Alberta, Canada. It is just north of Calgary inside of the  Calgary-Edmonton Corridor. As part of Calgary's Census Metropolitan Area It adds to area's estimated (1,037,100 in 2004). Because Airdrie is a member community of the Calgary Regional Partnership, It also adds to that regions population of about 1.1 million. Due to <a href="http://www.pixibot.com/86-airdrie" target="_blank">Airdrie</a>'s close proximity to Calgary, their has been an explode in population over the past few years. Airdrie's population was 27,069 In 2005, making it Calgary's largest politically distinct suburb.

Airdrie started as a railway village in 1889 during the construction of the Calgary and Edmonton Railway. Again because of it's close proximity to Calgary, today Airdrie is a gorgeous bedroom community and living industrial centre. Nose creek is its primary body of water, which is also the focal point of a number of green spaces and city parks in the city. One of the more popular of these parks is  Nose Creek Park. Nose Creek Park hosts the annual Airdrie Festival of Lights every Christmas season. Other annual festivals celebrated include the Airdrie Pro Rodeo and the Canada Day Parade. 

Transportaion in Airdrie is a breeze because it is situated on the Queen Elizabeth II Highway, the biggest highway in Alberta. This highwayh connects Calgary and Edmonton, thus making Airdrie a small and central transportation hub.

Feel free to reprint this article as long as you keep the following caption and author biography in tact with all hyperlinks.


