Title: 
Prague Holidays

Word Count:
539

Summary:
Read about holidays in Prague, what to see, what not to miss. Learn about flights and hotels packages. Provided here is everything you need to enjoy a nice city break in Prague.


Keywords:
Prague City Breaks, Prague Flights, Hotels In Prague, Cheap Flights To Prague, Cheap Hotels, Prague Short Breaks, Flights & Hotels In Prague, Cheap CityBreaks In Prague, Cheap ShortBreaks to Prague


Article Body:
Prague is the capital of the Czech Republic. Popularly known as "Jewel Of the Crown" among the central Europe, and one among the most beautiful city of the world, Prague has tourism as it major force. Though the city does not have tourism as its main occupation, but the effect of tourism can be clearly seen over the city. It is always a good time for brief, peaceful and romantic break at this beautiful city. It has a lot to offer for its tourists. There are many travel agents in UK offering cheap and short city breaks to Prague. You can also plan a stag/hen weekend in Prague at the last minutes. With such wide range of available Prague city breaks package, the city is only a step away from your home. Lets have a look at famous of Prague, attractions in the city, means of transports, nightlife, restaurants, flights and hotels etc.

Hotels In Prague

A visit to the Golden City is always a wonderful experience, your choice of hotel will add a finishing touch. There are a wide range of hotels in Prague, you can choose among depending upon your budget. MyPrague offers discounted rates for all <b>hotels in Prague</b>. Thus you'll end up with a luxurious stay with much less than you can imagine. Some of the top hotels in Prague are:-

Hotel Corinthia Towers Prague - Corinthia Towers is a 5* modern hotel providing the highest standards of comfort throughout and it prides itself on the high quality of services and facilities offered to guests.

Hotel Corinthia Panorama Prague - The Corinthia Panorama is a 4* luxury hotel located in a quiet residential area, close to the centre of Prague, making it easy for guests to explore the palaces, towers, museums and gardens.

Hotel Hilton Prague - This is the largest luxury five star hotel in the Czech Republic and is ideally suited for business travellers. It features 788 guest rooms, 3 restaurants, a bar, various shops and the Czech Republic's first Cybex Health Club & Spa, which offers the most extensive leisure facilities in town.

Attractions In Prague

Prague is a feast for sightseeing tourist. Prague has some of the most extensive collections of art and culture in the world. The city offers some fascinating attractions to life. Some of the places that are top on the "Do Not Miss" list of Prague are:- 

Astronomical Clock & Old Town Hall Tower - Address: Old Town Square, Old Town, Prague 1

Bertramka Mozart Museum - Address: Mozartova 169, Smichov, Prague 5

Charles Bridge - Address: Old Town, Prague 1

Church of Our Lady Before Tyn - Address: Old Town Square, Old Town, Prague 1

Dancing House - Address: Rasinovo nabrezi 80, New Town, Prague 2

Estates Theatre - Address: Ovocny trh 1, Old Town, Prague 1


Flights To Prague

You can easily book cheap flights to Prague from anywhere in UK at a price as low as £69.00 with a discount of £5.00. MyPrague offers low cost flights to Prague from London Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted, City Airport, Birmingham, East Midlands etc. You can also book last minute flights to Prague and get discounts. The flight booking facility is provided online. You can also check for the hotel booking and city break packages. Thus, at Myprague, you'll find everything that you need for a nice short breaks in Prague.


