Title: 
Puerto Galera Travel Guide

Word Count:
428

Summary:
The Philippines is a country gifted with great beaches. The better known beaches are those found in Boracay and Palawan. Another beach or resorts worth mentioning are those found on the Mindoro’s northern part in the province of Oriental Mindoro. The place is called Puerto Galera. It is locate south of Manila (130 kilometers south) and 14 nautical miles from Batangas City.

You can go to Puerto Galera from Manila to Batangas using only land routes. When you arrive on Batang...


Keywords:
Puerto Galera, Philippines Travel Guide, Philippines, Travel


Article Body:
The Philippines is a country gifted with great beaches. The better known beaches are those found in Boracay and Palawan. Another beach or resorts worth mentioning are those found on the Mindoro’s northern part in the province of Oriental Mindoro. The place is called Puerto Galera. It is locate south of Manila (130 kilometers south) and 14 nautical miles from Batangas City.

You can go to Puerto Galera from Manila to Batangas using only land routes. When you arrive on Batangas, you would then need to ride a ferry to transport you. The ferry trip will be 1 to 2 hours long. 

You have two options to go to Puerto Galera, the cheaper way or the more expensive way. The more expensive way is generally a faster way to get there. The more expensive one will make you ride the MV Super 85 Ferry and Sikat and Bus Services. Riding them is more expensive because they have no stop-overs, board the passengers directly to the ferries and are coasters or vans that are provided by the company. 

The cheaper transportation is the way of the commuter buses of BLTB, JAM and TRITRAN which can be located at EDSA-Pasay, Taft Avenue near the corner of Gil Puyat Avenue, and Buendia, respectively. The bus fares will only range from P80 (non-air-conditioned) or P100 (air-conditioned). You will then ride a ferry to go to Puerto Galera and later on would need to hire an outrigger boat that ranges from P2, 000 per banca. 

When you arrive at Puerto Galera, there are limitless activities to be done and places to go. You can go to the Hidden Valley, the Mangyan Village, the Muelle Bay and the Tammaraw waterfalls. The activities that can be done in Puerto Galera are kayaking and golfing to name a few. 

For people who are fascinated by the marine life Puerto Galera also offers a variety of dive sites. The following dive sites in Puerto Galera are the Coral Garden, The Pink Wall, the Hill, the Hole in the Wall, the Manila Channel, La Laguna Point, the Sabang point and wreck, the dungeon wall, the monkey beach, Ernie’s cave, and many others. 

A person who goes to Puerto Galera can also find some nice souvenirs to bring home to. They can be able to get the handicrafts that are made by the Mangyan to bring home to their friends.

There are other interesting places to go to in the Philippines. Don’t simply restrict yourself to the more popular ones. The less popular places can also provide you with a memorable experience.


