Title: 
Relaxing Lodgings for Michigan Getaways

Word Count:
436

Summary:
As the season turns, it is time to consider a little vacation leisure time. If a Michigan getaway is on your menu, there are a lot of informal lodging options


Keywords:
leisure, relaxing, getaway, vacations, michigan, great lakes, oscoda, tawas, rentals


Article Body:
As the season turns, it is time to consider a little vacation leisure time. If a Michigan getaway is on your menu, there are a lot of informal lodging options

Relaxing Lodgings for Michigan Getaways

Michigan is one of the most popular vacation spots in the Midwest. Situated between four Great Lakes (Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, Lake Erie and Lake Superior), this state has over 2000 miles of shoreline for excellent lakefront vacationing. Add to that the charm of the forest wilderness that abounds in Michigan, which includes great golfing, fishing and hunting, and the state becomes a great place to take a family vacation away from it all.

When you are thinking about taking a vacation in Michigan, why not choose to stay in one of the many vacation rentals that are more homey than hotels? Aside from being more rustic and outdoorsy, these cabin lodgings also offer families an affordable and fun place to stay. Available for long or short term rental, these cottages are perfect for family retreats and trips. Finding a relaxing lodgings that suit you is as easy as taking a look at the area you want to vacation in.

The beautiful area around Oscoda, Tawas City and Mackinac Island, Michigan is known as the "Sunrise Side", and it borders Lake Huron. Here, lodgings can be found on the sugar sand beaches of Lake Huron or on any of the smaller, more secluded lakes that are found in the vicinity. Some unique places to check out here are the Anchorage Cottages, located in Oscoda. Available with a weekly rental rate, these cabins are situated along 150 feet of sugar sand beach bordering Lake Huron. The Anchorage Cottages offer separate bedrooms, kitchens and living areas, as well as amenities such as water sports, swimming and fishing.

If you would prefer to stay in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, there are also plenty of interesting little places to choose from. Here, A Cottage UP North, located in the Porcupine Mountains State Park, offers family vacation fun. UP North is actually a four season vacation home, which is available to be rented weekly year round. It sleeps ten with three bedrooms, and it is near both the state park and Lake Superior. This gives you the opportunity to go water skiing, fishing, hiking or just loaf at a relaxed pace of life.

Whether you prefer to stay on a lake or in the mountains, Michigan offers the charm and economy families need and enjoy. Whether you plan on staying in Michigan for a few days or a week, relaxed vacation lodgings beat out hotels any day.


