Title: 
Restaurants of Breckenridge

Word Count:
567

Summary:
This article describes some of the restaurants at Breckenridge Ski Resort.  The restaurants are described, so you know what awaits you atop the mountain.  Visit  www.yourskivacation.com for more information!


Keywords:
Breckenridge, ski vacation, skiing in Colorado, Keystone ski, restaurants, resort, food


Article Body:
Breckenridge's restaurants are almost as delicious as the mountains, no matter what your preference is, I guarantee you will find delicious food that will stimulate your taste buds. Let's start with the American cuisine of Breckenridge.<br>
If you enjoy a nice import micro or a fresh brewed beer with your delicious meal be sure to check out the Breckenridge brewery. The Breckenridge brewery was founded in 1990 and was instantly a local's favorite. Take a seat in the dining room and enjoy the view of the 10-mile range while dining on excellent pub grub at a very reasonable price. They are open for both lunch and dinner so for the very best brews and grub make sure you stop by the Breckenridge Brewery. My personal favorite beer at the brewery is the avalanche; it is very smooth yet hoppy flavored ale.<br>
Downstairs at Eric's is the greatest sports bar in Breckenridge. Eric's specializes in wings, pizza, beer, but they also offer many televisions with direct TV. This will allow you to watch your favorite local sporting event. Eric's food is that of the bar variety with half pound burgers which will fill any skiers belly. Eric's buffalo wings are the best in summit county and their pizza is outstanding. Their sandwiches and dinners are simply the best.<br>
Eric's also features Breckenridge's finest game room, conveniently located in the lobby, with pinball and classic arcade games. The game room has the tendency to keep your children extremely busy and happy. Try Eric's if you want good times, great food and entertainment for the whole family.<br>
Rasta Pasta has been rated the number one restaurant in Breckenridge for the last three years. Rasta Pasta features the very best in pasta dishes ranging from ravioli to an amazing jerk chicken pasta dish. There pasta dishes use the most amazing spiced vegetables, meats, and seafood which form into an explosion of flavors in your mouth. All of there dinners come with garlic bread and a salad with a delicious sun dried vinaigrette dressing. Rasta Pasta's atmosphere is a mix of reggae meets mountain town. My advice is to arrive around 4:30pm or 5:00pm at the latest to beat the mountain traffic.<br>
Breckenridge ski area has four mountain dining lodges; you can either try one of the many sandwiches sub fusion offers, or try a huge burrito from burrito borders all at the Vista Haus. The Bergenhoff restaurant offers an incredible breakfast which will fill the heartiest appetite; they also have a great lunch menu with great burgers and sandwiches of all varieties.<br>
If you want some of the best views of the mountain head to the 10-mile station for some buffalo chili or a delicious buffalo burger. The Maggie at the base of peak 9, is a nice place to be at and they offer spirits and a delicious lunch. Tiffany's in the Beaver Run resort has live Apre ski entertainment.<br>
The Hearthstone is the very finest of fine dining in Breckenridge with delicious wild game dishes, like elk chops, and fresh water trout. The heart stone offers the most romantic dinners in a victorian house setting, with some of the best culinary cuisine money can buy. So if you do not mind spending a little extra cash to get the very best dinning experience ever, try the Hearthstone.<br>
We hope to see you soon!


