Title: 
Riviera Maya, Mexico – Paradise Defined

Word Count:
329

Summary:
The Riviera Maya on the Caribbean coast was a secret getaway to paradise for many years. No longer. Now it is considered one of the finest beach areas in the world.


Keywords:
riviera maya, mexico, yucatan peninsula


Article Body:
The Riviera Maya on the Caribbean coast was a secret getaway to paradise for many years. No longer. Now it is considered one of the finest beach areas in the world.

Riviera Maya

Located on the Yucatan Peninsula in the state of Quintana Roo, the Riviera Maya is jaw dropping beautiful. Although the area was only known to a select few for years, the last 10 years has seen a boom in tourism and resorts. Depending on your personal views, this is or isn’t a good development.

The best-known destination in the area is the beach town of Cancun. From Cancun, you can travel to the south down the beaches. Since the Riviera is not a defined area, it is generally agreed the town of Tulum is the southernmost point. Regardless of how you definite it, the beaches along the coast have something for everyone.

Top Locations

Although everyone has different views, Cancun is as good a place to start as anywhere. If you want to cram as much as possible into your vacation, this is the place. From loafing on the beach to snorkeling and jet skiing, your beach needs will be satisfied. If you prefer an adventure, you can head inland to see Mayan ruins or take jungle tours. The downside of Cancun, on the other hand, is it tends to be a bit crowded and lacks the “authentic Mexican feel.”

To get a better feel for the local culture, you should consider heading down the coast to explore the little towns dotting the coast. In places such as Tulum and Xpu-Ha, you can experience the laid back Mexican culture while staying in cheap cabanas. It’s a slow life, but truly amazing. Have you seen Corona Beer commercials showing people on the beach on thought, “Where is that?” This is the place.

The Riviera Maya is an incredibly beautiful collection of beaches. Next time you get a hankering for a beach vacation, check out this paradise.


