Title: 
Romantic Spots In Georgia

Word Count:
431

Summary:
In our fast paced world, romance can get edged out by the daily rush of life. Romantic destinations in Georgia offer a chance to recapture that spark that started long ago.


Keywords:
romance, romantic, georgia, peach state, atlanta, ritz, plantation, southern, atlanta, estate, french


Article Body:
In our fast paced world, romance can get edged out by the daily rush of life. Romantic destinations in Georgia offer a chance to recapture that spark that started long ago. 

Romantic Spots In Georgia

Georgia is known as the “Peach State”, but another good nickname for it might be the “Romance State”. While Georgia may not be what you think of when you are planning that honeymoon or special anniversary trip, romantic spots in Georgia can be wonderful and special. Georgia has a romance and charm that is uniquely Southern, and staying here with someone you love will be an experience you won’t soon forget.

The charm and beauty of a Southern plantation cannot be underestimated. A stay at the Ritz-Carlton Lodge, Reynolds Plantation will make all your dreams of romance come true. This resort, located 60 minutes from Atlanta in Greensboro, Georgia, is both a spa and golf resort  (81 holes available for play) with service and style to make any couple fall more in love. Weddings are frequently held here because of the exquisite grounds, and the restaurants and other eateries are known to be delicious. Honeymoon and romance packages are available for those in the mood to be alone. Private verandahs and other amenities like a private beach draw many couples to this spot.

Of course, there are other places for romantic spots in Georgia. If you would prefer to feel like you are on an old French estate instead of a plantation, the Chateau Elan can definitely suit your needs. Located in Atlanta, Georgia, this winery and resort combination feels more like you are in the south of France than in the South. A spa is also on the premises for those who want to truly relax, and there are romantic packages planned out just for you. The two night Chateau Romantic Retreat, for instance, offers amenities such as a rose petal covered bed, breakfasts, dinners, and a bottle of the wineries own vintage delivered to your room. Also available are other bed and breakfast packages and spa treatments that can bring you and your loved one even closer together.

Georgia’s many resorts and romantic retreats are as diverse as the people and terrain in the state. If you enjoy great food, great atmosphere and Southern hospitality, romantic spots in Georgia provide you with a stay that fits the bill. Whether in a city or small town, on the beach or in the mountains, a trip to Georgia will bring out the romance in any couple. Try a Georgia destination for your next vacation for two!


