Title: 
Romanian travel guide

Word Count:
572

Summary:
A place that has seen political turmoil to the hardest extent but has stood the test of time. A place where mysteries unfold around every corner. Where the nature has bestowed its greatest gifts. Welcome to Romania


Keywords:
Romania, travel, introduction, geography, about


Article Body:
A place that has seen political turmoil to the hardest extent but has stood the test of time. A place where mysteries unfold around every corner. Where the nature has bestowed its greatest gifts. Welcome to Romania.  Until the modern history was being written Romania was mainly under the influence of the wars. Then it was gripped in the hands of the communist regimen. Despite the wraths of wraths of time the country has stood erect and today it is one of the culturally advanced and educationally pioneering countries of the world. 

The historical importance of the country is established by the presence of the numerous castles all over the place. The main attraction of the tourists to this country is its magnificent castle. Build in the ancient times, they still sing the lore of the European grandeur and Romanian past. The atmosphere in them is filled with mysticism and it’s a once in a life experience that every tourists takes back. The Peles, Corvin are two of most famous castles of Romania. Conducted tours take the tourists around the castles giving them information about the historical facts.

As most European nations Romania too has a rich arts and cultural history. The architecture of the country makes it stand out form the lot. The historical curves on the famous buildings give then a unique royalty. Bucharest, the capital city, is also the cultural capital of the country. The village life of Romania is depicted in a museum dedicated to it. The Village museums answer all questions in the minds of the tourists about he rural backdrop of the country. The painted monasteries of Bucovina stand there since the 1500s and are an embodiment of the great architectural history of Romania. 

It’s not hard to find great people from this European nation but one prince that has made this country a legend is of Transylvania. The Dracula is a legendry character, which has had a lasting impression on the people of all ages and backgrounds. The castle of the Dracula stands in all its magnificence in Transylvania. Myths apart it has now become one of the most urbanized areas of the country. However the mysterious sensation still keep the tourists dumbfound. 

Bucharest, the capital is situated in the Wallachia region in the southern part of Romania. It has got all the political activity. It has gained world repute in the field of education. An international college for medicine is situated in Bucharest, which attracts students from all over the world. The French influence on the city is evident by the architecture on many buildings of the city. It has been christened as ‘little Paris’ due to this very reason. How ever the beauty of the planning of the city has left it look very green and silent. It’s a soothing experience to be in any Romanian city and Bucharest tops the list. One thing seldom found in Europe is found in Bucharest in abundance – legalized gambling. The city offers some of the best casino rooms and coupled with the fact that it is legal makes it a favorite among the tourists. The typical cuisine of Romania is rich with beacon and meat. The desserts also have their distinctive taste. 

The country having undergone harsh times in the political oppression could not explore all possibilities of tourism. Now it is coming out with ecotourism programs to attract tourists. Way to go!


