Title: 
Rome hotel

Word Count:
389

Summary:
Find  the right hotel in Rome


Keywords:
Rome hotel,


Article Body:
With Rome hotel You can make a reservation once you have chosen your hotel in Rome.
In our pages about Rome hotels You can see the complete index of hotels and you can display colorful pictures , as well as tariffs and useful informations since your arrival at Rome airports.

All our Rome hotels are perfect for a romantic journey in the Eternal City , a relaxing time  or for  a business trip. You will find all our Rome hotels  conveniently located on a quiet side street in the center of Rome: the accommodations we offer you  are just at few minutes  from Rome's monuments.
For those of you that want to wonder further, Rome underground is just around the corner of your Rome hotel.

Our hotel rooms are  above the usual three-star hotel in Rome, thoughtfully decorated with good quality fabrics, original paintings from the beginning of the 20th century and mahogany furniture. And after a day of exhausting sightseeing  you can relax on our beautiful  roof terraces or socialise with other travellers from all over the world.

Rome hotel service is the best chance you have to explore Rome and the accommodation options we offer span a wide range of budgets; our prices won't inhibit your dreams becoming true in Rome. 

Rome hotel accommodation amenities are: satellite TV, air conditioning, direct dial telephone, modem points, electronic safe and private bathroom in marble with shower stall, bidet, toilet, sink, hair dryer and towel warmer.
Our rates cover a wide range of budgets. Have a look at our accommodation prices, special offers, vacation packages so that you'll se how inexpensive we can be.

Families can be accommodated in suites and, in some cases, in connecting rooms. Rooms for non-smokers and wheelchair-accessible rooms are also available. We recommend contacting Rome Hotel directly to make the best arrangements. 

Because your vacation in Rome  is precious to you, we offer quality information and tips to help you plan a carefree trip. Vital info about countries is just a click away.

Embrace the magic of the holidays in Rome. Treat yourself to a stylish seasonal vacation with one of our rome hotel solutions.

Join Rome hotel for a memorable bed and breakfast stay where excellence and comfort are our commitment with the history of yesterday as well as just a touch of today.


