Title: 
Sail In Paradise - Yacht Charter Adventures In The Virgin Islands

Word Count:
851

Summary:
Looking for a relaxing and adventurous get-a-way in a paradise setting?  Why not consider dropping anchor in the sizzling blue waters of the Virgin Islands aboard your own private, crewed Yacht Charter?


Keywords:
Yacht Charter Adventures In The Virgin Islands


Article Body:
Looking for a relaxing and adventurous get-a-way in a paradise setting?  Why not consider dropping anchor in the sizzling blue waters of the Virgin Islands aboard your own private, crewed Yacht Charter?  The Virgin Islands are an archipelago of over 40 islands, islets and cays lying to the east of Puerto Rico in the Northeast Caribbean.  This enticing destination offers its visitors the opportunity of exploring both U.S. and British islands.  While Sailing in the U.S. Virgin Islands, featured islands might include St. Thomas with its bustling harbor, busy cruise ship docks, and abundance of world-class shops.  Meanwhile, St. John, its U.S. neighbor lying 2 miles to the east, offers its visitors something completely different with 80% of its land protected within a pristine national park.  Here, visitors can wander through Cruz Bay, its one quaint town, hike numerous trails, or explore an abundance of dazzling white sand beaches.

The British Virgin Islands are typically the highlight of a Yacht Charter as these islands offer its visitors the perfect blend of remoteness and Caribbean charm.  Guests that have the opportunity of discovering this destination via Sailing in the Virgin Islands aboard a Yacht Charter soon discover why the British Virgin Islands have come to be known as "Natures Little Secret".  While the main island of Tortola offers a central hub, variety of shops, and convenient airport, a majority of any Yacht Charter will be spent island-hopping through the remote outer islands of Norman, Peter, Salt, Cooper, Virgin Gorda, Anegada and Jost Van Dyke.  The uniqueness of this vacation lies in the ability to set sail to a new island destination each day, each with its own unique character and charm.
  
While Sailing in the Virgin Islands, charter guests may opt to:  snorkel the Caves at Norman Island, the inspiration for Robert Louis Stevenson's "Treasure Island" - visit a world-class resort on Peter Island or take in breath-taking views from its many hiking trails - dive or snorkel above the RMS Rhone, just off Salt Island, one of the most spectacular wreck dives in the Caribbean and the setting for the movie "The Deep" watch a remarkable Cooper Island sunset from the deck of your yacht explore "the  Bath's" on Virgin Gorda - huge granite boulders set amongst crystal-clear blue waters and powder white beaches - a must see for any Virgin Island visitor - take an exhilarating sail out to Anegada and walk its endless beaches - and finally, guests may enjoy a toast to the vacation of a lifetime at "Foxy's Tamarind Bar" the world-famous beach bar on Jost Van Dyke!
      
Sailing in the Virgin Islands aboard a Yacht Charter is not only surprisingly affordable, but it also serves as an ideal vacation destination for a wide variety of groups.    A Yacht Charter in the Virgin Islands is generally referred to as an "all inclusive" vacation where food, beverage, standard bar, the yacht, the professional crew, and onboard water toys are included in the rate.  In addition, whether your Yacht Charter group consists of several friends, a group of couples, or a family grouping, Sailing in the Virgin Islands offers something for everyone.  After all, the Virgin Islands are touted as the sailing capital of the Caribbean due to the constant trade winds and the close proximity of the islands to one another. These ideal conditions create the perfect backdrop for first-time charterers in search of protected waters and relaxing coves, as well as more experienced sailors in search of daily adventure and of course the perfect sail!
 
Sailing in the Virgin Islands aboard a Yacht Charter provides an exciting and unique experience for those that choose to discover it.  Visitors may choose from a wide variety of featured yachts, including monohulls (traditional sailboats), catamarans and power yachts.  Yacht charters provide a luxurious yet intimate setting by a professional crew whose sole desire is to cater to their guests every whim!  Private onboard Chefs take great pride in tailoring a gourmet menu based upon each group's specific preferences and dietary requirements.  Professional Charter Captain's are happy to teach the basics of sailing, let guests take the helm, and share their stories of the high seas.  In addition, guests on a Yacht Charter can choose to be as active or laid-back as they like.  An abundance of activities await guests, typically including sailing, snorkeling, kayaking, waterskiing, shopping, beachcombing, and perhaps diving.  You'll never run out of things to do while Sailing in the Virgin Islands.  However, guests may choose to sit back, relax, take in the splendid view at each new destination, and leave the responsibilities to their professional Captain and crew. 
      
The best time to sail in the Virgin Islands on a Yacht Charter is from early November through late June as this is the typical charter season for most yachts. Many yachts also charter in the months of July and October as these months fall outside of peak hurricane season in the tropics.  It should be noted that the most popular yachts fill their charter calendars well in advance so it is recommended that a Yacht Charter vacation is booked at least 6 months in advance.


