Title: 
San Diego Beaches

Word Count:
441

Summary:
San Diego is offered up as a great destination for people looking to take a vacation on the beach. Here are some recommendations on San Diego beaches from a local.


Keywords:
san diego, beach, beaches, california, pacific beach, del mar, encinitas


Article Body:
San Diego is offered up as a great destination for people looking to take a vacation on the beach. Here are some recommendations on San Diego beaches from a local.

San Diego Beaches

When people think of San Diego, they inevitably imagine year around sun and beautiful beaches. Ironically, the worst time to visit San Diego is from the middle of May through the middle of June. During this time period, the coast is socked with low clouds and the sun breaks through for no more than a couple of hours a day. In fact, we call the annual process by the name of June Gloom.  

Assuming you come at a different time, the beaches of San Diego offer up plenty of variety and beauty. There are literally hundreds of beaches you can visit, but a select few are worth a mention.   

If you are looking for the beach with college kids and a party scene, Pacific Beach is the place to be. The beach is wide, wild and packed. A sidewalk runs the length of the beach to the south and is a great place to people watch. If you prefer an alcoholic beverage with your people watching, the outdoors deck at Lahainas is the place to be. The suds flow all day, but make sure to get there early as the deck is small. 

For a more relaxed experience, the beaches of Del Mar offer a choice spot. The beaches are designated by the numbered streets that intersect them. If you are looking to surf, 9th street is the place to be if you are willing to walk down the cliff. If you just want to loaf, play a little volleyball and so on, anywhere from 19th to 25th street should do the trick. Del Mar is a particularly good place to be during the fourth of July since the racetrack on the back side of the beach puts on a fireworks show. Keep in mind there will be tons of people.  

If you prefer to have most of the beach to yourself, you need to look to the beaches backed by cliffs. People are lazy, so they tend not to congregate in these area since you have to hoof it up and down the paths to get to the beach. Stone Steps in Encinitas is a personal favorite. The beach is used sparsely, which makes it a good place to swim and just loaf.  

The honest truth is you really cannot go wrong with San Diego beaches as long as you avoid June gloom. If you decide to visit, give me a wave. I’m the tan guy!


