Title: 
Scarborough City Guide, Including Hotels

Word Count:
1042

Summary:
Scarborough is one of Britain’s favourite seaside resorts and has been for more than four centuries. Located on the east coast of Yorkshire, Scarborough has always attracted visitors thanks to its beautiful and lengthy sandy beaches, picturesque cliff tops and family-oriented attractions. The location offers spectacular views of the North Sea but is also far more than just another seaside town; there are numerous things to see and do, making it an ideal place to take a break....


Keywords:
scarbourogh tourist information, scarborough hotels, hotels in scarborough


Article Body:
Scarborough is one of Britain’s favourite seaside resorts and has been for more than four centuries. Located on the east coast of Yorkshire, Scarborough has always attracted visitors thanks to its beautiful and lengthy sandy beaches, picturesque cliff tops and family-oriented attractions. The location offers spectacular views of the North Sea but is also far more than just another seaside town; there are numerous things to see and do, making it an ideal place to take a break.

When you arrive in Scarborough, you’ll discover a whole treasure trove of things to see and do during your stay. Whatever your interest, be it history, heritage, sport, nature or art, you’ll find that Scarborough has it covered. Here are just a few of the places you can visit:

The Rotunda Museum. Suitable for all the family, including young children, this museum has Scarborough’s past completely covered. Come here to find out about the Victorian spa, the fishing port and prehistoric burial sites.

Eden Camp at Malton. It’s worth taking the short journey from Scarborough to visit this exciting recreation of wartime Britain. Scenes from the past are reconstructed through a combination of sound, smell, movement and lighting.

Scarborough Light House. Located on Vincent Pier, this lighthouse has been guarding the coast for two hundred years and is known and loved by visitors and town-dwellers alike.

Church of St. Martin-on-the-Hill. This beautiful Victorian church boasts splendid, pre-Raphaelite stained glass, colourful interior decoration and extravagant architecture.

North Bay Miniature Railway. Enjoy the whimsical British phenomenon of the miniature railway as you explore this one from the 1930s, which has tracks of almost a mile in length.

As well as all the places of interest to visit in Scarborough, there are also many different types of things you can do. Scarborough is host to a whole selection of special events and activities all the year round, so you never know what might be on when you come and visit. Some of the things you might choose to do include:

Go shopping! At the Brunswick Shopping Centre, you’ll discover shops selling many different kinds of goods and products, whether you’re looking for children’s clothing or the ideal wedding present.
Take a trip along the coast with Scarborough Pleasure Steamers. Enjoy the finest views of the picturesque Yorkshire coast by travelling on the Regal Lady and Coronia. Trips run whatever the weather.

Enjoy the spectacle of the Water Ski Circus. You’d be cruel to deny your kids the pleasure of a trip to this exhibit, which sees your favourite TV & film characters performing on water skis. Watch out for Batman, Bart Simpson, the Tellytubbies and more.

Go boating at Peasholm Park & Island. Choose from canoes, pedalos or boat trips and enjoy this beautiful park on a relaxing afternoon. Also choose from mini golf, tree walks, and a water ski circus.

Scarborough offers a wide variety of places to eat, each serving its own type of distinctive food. Venues range from that ever-popular Yorkshire speciality, fish and chip shops, to high-class restaurants, plus all the cafes you could wish for. Here is just a selection of some of Scarborough’s quality eateries:

The Red Lea Hotel. Located on the Prince of Wales Terrace, this hotel has a five-star restaurant offering three course meals that change every day. Take your pick from beef, salmon or vegetarian platters, or try something refined like the roast pheasant.

The Magpie Café. This café offers a variety of tasty meals, but is especially renowned for its fish and chips. The reason? The fish is always straight from the harbour at Scarborough, meaning you’ll be in for a fresh-tasting treat.

Mother Hubbard’s Restaurant. A family-owned eatery for many years, this restaurant also serves up its own special brand of fish and chips, earning it the title of ‘Fish and Chip Shop of the Year’ on several occasions.

The Hungry Horse. A wide choice of dishes is on offer here, ranging from delicious steaks to bulging burgers, light bites and yummy desserts. You also have the opportunity to wash down your food down with an ice-cold Greene King beer.

The Pizza Place. If you’re looking for takeaway food, then this is the place to come. Choose from a variety of pizzas, all served with your own choice of toppings.

If you’re looking for somewhere to stay, then you’ll find yourself spoiled for choice when you come to Scarborough. Every type of accommodation is available in the town, whether you’re looking for bed and breakfasts, hotels, inns, or guest houses; there are also many caravans and campsites available for booking. Finally, there are even holiday cottages up for rent if you want total privacy, peace and quiet. Many of the hotels in the town are located on cliff-tops, offering views of the sandy beaches and open sea; others come complete with their own golf courses. Additionally, many of the hotels and guesthouses offer facilities such as swimming pools, television, bars and in-house restaurants.

The Gresham Hotel
The Victoria Hotel
Hotel St Nicholas
Royal Classic Hotel
Granville Lodge Hotel
Chatsworth Hotel
The Crown Spa Hotel
Ashburton Hotel
The Lincoln Hotel
The Skikero Hotel
The Grand Scarborough
Mansion House Hotel

Scarborough has plenty of entertainment up on offer, most of it geared towards the family. One of the town’s biggest venues is the Olympia Leisure Family Entertainment Centre, which has everything from fruit machines to children’s adventure play areas, laser dodgems, simulators and the ever-favourite 2p machines. If you’re stuck for something to do in an evening, then Scarborough Spa Theatre provides a variety of family entertainment. Alternatively, if you’re looking for something that little bit different, Cotton Dale Shooting Ground is on hand if you’ve always fancied having a go at clay pigeon shooting. Finally, if you’re a movie fan, then a trip to the Hollywood Plaza Cinema is a must, as it shows all the latest blockbusters.

As one of Britain’s best-loved seaside towns, Scarborough has plenty to offer the visitor and tourist. With plenty of attractions and things to do, no matter what the weather, Scarborough is the perfect holiday destination all year round.


