Title: 
Scotland travel guide

Word Count:
579

Summary:
The charisma and aura of the European country Scotland is unknown to none. It is the land, which was a surface to numerous significant historical battles, is the mother of cherished sport ‘golf’ and is globally appreciated for its Balmoral Castle


Keywords:
scotland, travel, history, regions, saxons


Article Body:
The charisma and aura of the European country Scotland is unknown to none. It is the land, which was a surface to numerous significant historical battles, is the mother of cherished sport ‘golf’ and is globally appreciated for its Balmoral Castle (a vacation spot for Queen Elizabeth and her family) and Scotch whisky. Scotland is blessed with a rich history, culture and scenic splendor. It is one amongst the most admired places on the globe today. Geographically, Scotland is bifurcated into three regions- Southern Uplands, Central Lowlands and Highlands. These regions adjoin different places and comprise of different landforms for instance by way of river valleys the Southern Uplands act as a link between the country’s central plain and England border.

 
The Scotland Activities 

•	Since time memorial golf is an immensely crucial activity in Scotland. Infact the golf sport originated from this very European country. The Highlands region of Scotland nestles some of the prominent golf courses in the world. There are around 540 golf courses in Scotland. These are variously scattered in Northeast, Southeast, Southwest, Historic Heartland and Central areas of Scotland.  

•	Cycling and bike riding is another cherished pastime in Scotland. The enthusiasm for cycling is such that many tourists hire bikes to explore this divinely beautiful place. The Glencoe, Galloway region and the Isle of Skye are perfect spectacular riding places.   


•	The exclusive Scotland attractions are the Heavy and Light Athletics. Heavy Athletics includes games that demand muscle. These games are stone, weight and hammer throwing, sheaf tossing and so forth. Dancing, sprinting, running and jumping are the light athletics sports that basically require an impregnable stamina. 


City Look
The capital city of Scotland, Edinburgh is a perfect blend of contemporary and archaic Scotland. The traditional Scotland is reflected from the ancient Edinburgh castles and buildings. While the marvelously constructed hotels, restaurants and thrilling nightlife are the emblems of present-day Scotland. Edinburgh is swarming with people every year for more than one reason. The foremost attractions are the museums of this place. The Royal Museum that houses the first cloned sheep named Dolly, the National Gallery of Scotland along with quite a few national museums are paradigmatic cases in point. Next there are the famous Edinburgh castle, the Royal Mile Street that conjoins this castle and the Palace of Holyroodhouse, the garden of medicinal plants i.e. the Royal Botanical Gardens and the Princes Street, worldwide famous for shopping. 


If you want to experience the mind-boggling Scottish Opera and Scottish Ballet, the city of Glasgow is a place ideal for that. Apart from being a home for some of the most noteworthy Scot museums such as St. Mungo Museum Religious Life, the largely acclaimed Museum of Transport and the Scotland Street School Museum; Glasgow is endowed with ample of other lures to woo its visitors. For instance there are primitive constructions like The Pollock House, the Country Black, the Glasgow Cathedral and the Bothwel Castle. These places hold immense significance not just as tokens of an abundant history but also in incurring tourist wealth. Not to forget are Glasgow’s eminent pedestrian shopping streets- Sauchiehall Street, Buchanan Street etc. 
 
Some nitty-gritties

The best feature of Scotland is an easy access to it. Americans can throng this place without any passport. April to September are the ideal months to visit Scotland. So make sure that you get your reservations done beforehand. Scotland does not accept Euro currency. The visitors must get it exchanged prior to their visit.


