Title: 
Scotland is a superb destination for a golfing vacation

Word Count:
398

Summary:
Scotland is one of the most amazing and breathtaking places in the world. Imagine being able to play a round or two in the shadow of the glenn. Sheer bliss.


Keywords:
scotland,golf,vacation,scottish vacations,


Article Body:
If you love your golf and you love to travel then one of the best things you can do is combine the two and go for a golfing holiday in beautiful Scotland. Scotland allows golfers to experience some of the most wonderful golf courses that can be found anywhere in the world. As a golfing enthusiast you can embark on Scotland golf packages, vacations and tours, some of which encompass the magnificent St. Andrews - the holy grail of golf - where the great game was first played in the 15th century.

If you decide to take a golfing vacation in Scotland, there is just no doubt at all you will be able to embark on some of the most challenging golfing experiences around. With this in mind, Europeans, Americans and even Australians make the trek to Scotland on a weekly basis, with the sole purpose of taking up this once in a lifetime challenge.

The Old Course at St. Andrews and Royal Troon are two of Scotland's most well known golf courses. Well known because the world renowned British Open is hosted on an annual basis and both of these courses feature regularly when it comes to hosting the Open. These famous courses provide a haven for professional and amateur golfers from golfing fraternities all around the world.

Founded in 1764, St Andrews Golf Course is essentially completely natural, with its layout remaining relatively unchanged in more than 200 years since its inception. This course has of course been modeled and molded by the forces of nature that form dunes into unique and changeable shapes.

If you are planning on traveling to Scotland for a golfing holiday then you won't have a shortage of options for accommodation. There is a host of options from which you can choose - hotels, country houses, and resorts. Many hotels will even offer accommodation and golf packages combined meaning that your green fees and transport are included in the price you pay.

Golf is one of the main reasons that people visit Scotland year after year. With the popularity of golfing holidays continuing to rise, Scotland is likely to see an ongoing demand for holiday packages that include golf activities, tourist activities like visiting castles and taverns and generally seeing the sites of the region. When you plan your next golfing holiday you should ensure that Scotland is included as one of your options.


