Title: 
Sheffield City Guide, Including Hotels

Word Count:
1456

Summary:
Sheffield is a city that is steeped with the history of steelmaking in England. Take a look at any knife and fork and see the inevitable ‘Made in Sheffield’ sign. Most of the tourists come here especially to be the part of the scenic beauty that surrounds Sheffield. The city is located towards the centre of England in the county of South Yorkshire.

The city was actually the country’s first National City of Sport in 1995. That year triggered an interest of the populace towa...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Sheffield is a city that is steeped with the history of steelmaking in England. Take a look at any knife and fork and see the inevitable ‘Made in Sheffield’ sign. Most of the tourists come here especially to be the part of the scenic beauty that surrounds Sheffield. The city is located towards the centre of England in the county of South Yorkshire.

The city was actually the country’s first National City of Sport in 1995. That year triggered an interest of the populace towards sports. Since then the city has an excellent reputation of being one of the prime cities for sport and sporting venues. Be it sports research, sports medicine and sports related engineering, the city has endeavoured to keep no stone unturned in the world of games and sporting expertise.

An estimate of seven million people reside here, within an hour’s drive. All in all it is a modern multicultural city with a prosperous heritage and a diverse culture. Every day is a day for the city to pave the road to further progress.

Places of interest:

Sheffield is a popular UK destination - a tourist’s paradise. If you are passionate about arts, someone who likes diversity in culture or someone who swears by exciting nightlife, then you ought to have Sheffield in your mind. Combine these things with excellent shopping locales and eye-soothing scenery and you know you are in the right place.


Chatsworth House - This is one of the treasure houses of England. Chatsworth House is located right at the border of Sheffield and in the heart of the Peak District National Park. It is one place that should never be missed. The spectacular woodland adventure playground, the scenic farmyard or the 105-acre garden with its cascading fountains and maze are breathtaking.

Millennium Galleries - This is just the place where intricate art meets exquisite design. Situated in the heart of the city centre, it has an outstanding impressive metalwork gallery, attracting immense and grand exhibitions from national galleries. It has beautiful works in traditional craftsmanship and contemporary examples. It links directly to the stunning winter garden, which is Europe’s biggest city centre temperate glasshouse.

Hardwick Hall - Hardwick Hall is a spectacular National Trust Elizabethan home with more glass than wall. You will love the embroideries and tapestries put on display here. Of course, this place has no dearth of gardens and scintillating parkland walks.

Magna - Magna, the UK’s first science adventure centre, is an awe-inspiring day out for the family. It is a tribute to the powerful elements of earth, wind, fire and water. You can take controls of a JCB digger, blast water cannons at human targets and also feel the heat of a fire tornado. 

Trans-Pennine Trail - You can walk and bike on this regional trail that spans east to west and breezes through Derbyshire and Yorkshire locations.

Things to do:

Hailed as the safe city, you can rest assured that you will feel secure in this city. In fact the city has undertaken a lot of initiatives to keep crime and anti-social behaviour at bay. You can shop till you drop and enjoy the exciting local events.

Shopping - Sheffield is a shopper's resort. The retail outlets have a lot of variety in the products they offer. The indoor and outdoor markets are always bustling with lively activity. There are trendy shops as well as those that specialize in selling designer brands. Fargate is a famous pedestrian shopping area right in the heart of the city with an emphasis on fashion and trends. The Moor is another broad and famed tree-lined thoroughfare, having over 100 shopping outlets, banks, department stores, cafés and restaurants. It is also famous for its open-air market. 

Transport- Sheffield is wonderfully connected to the rest of Britain by road and rail. There is a comprehensive bus network and the efficient Supertram system in the city also. This place is also remarkably close to most of England’s major airports. Leeds Bradford, Nottingham East Midlands, Manchester, Humberside and Birmingham International airports all within about an hour and a half by road. The Robin Hood Doncaster Sheffield Airport was the first full-service international airport to be built in the last thirty years. It has flights to major European cities and resorts like Rome, Rhodes, Barcelona, Amsterdam, and Belfast. The Supertram, silent and sleek as they come, constitutes one of the most successful urban transport systems in the whole of Europe. The Supertram network is 29 kilometres long. Each tram can carry 250 passengers. 

The Nightlife - The nightlife is pretty hep here with the best of DJs and big name artists thronging this city. The place is a regular clubbing haunt. The late-night venues for music and pubbing would be Leadmill and the renowned Gatecrasher One. Those looking for live music could head to Eleven jazz club, Ruskins – a contemporary wine bar adjacent to Sheffield’s Theatres, The Leadmill, The Boardwalk or Trippets Wine Bar to listen to popular live music and bands. 

Special events - A city full of vibrant arts, passion for music and literature has a lot of festivals in honour of these pursuits. There is a much acclaimed Children’s Festival, a five-week event involving more than 135 schools, colleges and community groups. There is Lord Mayor’s Carnival Parade each July, which sparks off a party mood in the minds of the general public. You will see hundreds of people moving their way through the city streets carrying spectacular carnival structures and donning colourful costumes. There is a literature festival called Off the Shelf Literature Festival that has prominent literary figures pouring to the city. One cannot forget Europe Week, a celebration event which grows better with every passing year! It is comprised of a chain of events celebrating Sheffield’s role as a major European city. The events include the European Youth Parliament, the Taste of Europe continental food market, European Question Time and Opportunity Europe for Business. The famous Lovebytes Digital Arts festival, the longest running event of its kind for celebrating digital innovation in photography and culture, is also celebrated here with grandeur.

Food & Drink:

Sheffield is an incredible place to dine. You can get a sumptous variety of food from all over the world here. There’s the best of Indian, Italian, Cuban, Chinese and seafood restaurants to choose from. There is also no dearth of bars, bistros, cafés, and of course, pubs.

Rutland Arms’- Rutland Arms’ is a beautifully painted award-winning beer joint. 

Gastro Pub - Gastro Pub merges the best of a traditional pub with contemporary dining and a wide selection of drinks. 

Marco at Milanos in Millhouses – Marco has been ranked one of Britain’s top 10 Italian Restaurants in the Observer Food Monthly magazine in June 2004. 

Rafters - This is recommended in most of the food guides in the UK, offering the best of European menu. 

The Old Vicarage at Ridgeway - Is the restaurant owned by the award-winning TV chef Tessa Bramley. You can expect to get an innovative mix and taste of modern British dishes.

Hotels & Accommodation:

Whether you want to come here for a long weekend, a business trip, or even spend your honeymoon, you will find that the choice of where to stay may be a difficult one. The hotels and accommodation could be bed and breakfasts, discount hotels, guesthouses, four or five-star luxury hotels and accommodations, etc. The benefits in most of them multi-functional rooms, swimming pools, gyms, saunas, Jacuzzis, and Internet access at a good price.

Hotel Bristol 
Rutland Hotel 
Cutlers Hotel 
Holiday Inn Sheffield 
Sheffield Park Hotel 
Carlton Park Hotel 
The Beauchief Hotel 
Staindrop Classic Hotel 
Grosvenor House Hotel 
Novotel Sheffield 
DAYS INN HOTEL Sheffield South 
Macdonald St. Paul's Hotel 
The Red Lion Inn

Entertainment:

A ten-minute tram ride from the city centre is Valley Centertainment. This extremely popular development includes a multi-screen cinema, stylised American-type restaurants, a bowling alley, and amusements with the latest video and arcade games. The Valley Centertainment is surrounded by a host of leisure venues including Don Valley Stadium, English Institute of Sport Sheffield, Sheffield Hallam FM Arena, iceSheffield, and Don Valley Bowl. Sheffield is always on the map for any major UK music tour. Major bands as well as the upcoming ones always love to perform in this city. The 2000 seater City Hall accomodates the biggest names in world entertainment like Beyonce and Justin Timberlake.

Sheffield’s people are some of the friendliest and most tolerant people in the UK. It is a vibrant city that sends positive vibes to the people and tourists visiting the place. It is a multicultural city as potrayed by the innumerable festivals, variety of cuisines and cultures on display here. Come to Sheffield and get the tour of your life.


