Title: 
Sights in Los Angeles, California

Word Count:
459

Summary:
Los Angeles, California is a place of beautiful beaches, sunny skies, and many popular attractions. Contrary to what most people think, Los Angeles is a melting pot of culture and history. While many of is attractions are geared towards tourists and are sometimes cheesy and overpriced, there is no reason you should enjoy them less. Explore L.A. as an informed and knowledgeable traveler and you’ll have a great time.


Keywords:
airline reservation,rental car company,last minute flight,hotel motel,embassy suites hotel,extended stay hotel,hotel accommodation,comfort inn suite


Article Body:
Los Angeles, California is a place of beautiful beaches, sunny skies, and many popular attractions. Contrary to what most people think, Los Angeles is a melting pot of culture and history. While many of is attractions are geared towards tourists and are sometimes cheesy and overpriced, there is no reason you should enjoy them less. Explore L.A. as an informed and knowledgeable traveler and you’ll have a great time.

Hollywood Boulevard: One of the most popular attractions in LA, Hollywood Boulevard was once home to the greatest studios and a milieu of popular celebrities and visitors.  Now, it is a street lined with pricey souvenir shops and boutiques, as well as generic, expensive restaurants. However, it is worth visiting Hollywood Blvd’s walk of stars and Grauman’s Chinese Theatre. They are two parts of historic Hollywood Boulevard that are worth seeing and free to boot. Take a nice stroll down Hollywood Boulevard and take in the sights.

Universal Studios:  Universal Studios is a great place to come if you have kids. However, while the rides are amusing, are not as great as they’re made out to be. Experience it once if you like, but if you’re going to shell out the cash, check out Disneyland, Knott’s Berry Farm, take a lunch and drinks. You’ll save a ton of money, energy and time by doing so. 

Melrose Avenue: one of LA’s most visited locations, Melrose Avenue boasts expensive dining and lots of shopping. Other than people watching, you can eat or shop while waiting anxiously to catch one glimpse of a star. In reality, you would have to go every day for at least a week to actually catch a glimpse of anyone. Or you might pass a disguised celebrity without noticing. Either way, you’re probably in for disappointment on the star-gazing end.

Farmers Market: the farmer’s market at the Grove is an excellent way to enjoy your trip to Los Angeles. Cruise for fresh fruit and veggies, awesome food from local food stands, and if you’re lucky you might see a star or two. You are much more likely to run into a star randomly going to the farmer’s market in Hollywood than Melrose Avenue. 

The Grove: the grove is a small shopping center with a number of high end boutiques, good food, and an excellent place for people watching and window shopping. There is also great regular shopping, and there are some good deals to be had if you nose around a little.  If you’re not in the mood to shop, step over to the Farmer’s Market next door and enjoy a piece of Los Angeles’ rich and vibrant history.

http://www.onetravelsource.com


