Title: 
Sights in New York City

Word Count:
605

Summary:
New York City, aptly named “The Big Apple” and the “city that never sleeps,” represents one of the great international centers of finance, politics, communications, music, culture, and fashion. Home to numerous, world-class museums, venues, and sights, this city is one of the most cosmopolitan in the world.  Imbued with a rich sense of history and culture, there are many attractions for visitors to see and visit.


Keywords:
southwest airline,airline ticket cheap,budget car rental,national car rental,discount hotels,cheap hotels,europe hotels,new zealand hotels,enterprise car rental


Article Body:
New York City, aptly named “The Big Apple” and the “city that never sleeps,” represents one of the great international centers of finance, politics, communications, music, culture, and fashion. Home to numerous, world-class museums, venues, and sights, this city is one of the most cosmopolitan in the world.  Imbued with a rich sense of history and culture, there are many attractions for visitors to see and visit.

Statue of Liberty (http://www.nps.gov/stli/) 
The Statue of Liberty is another must see in New York, but don’t bother going into the museum unless you really want to. Visitors aren’t allowed to the top of the Statue of Liberty anymore because of security issues. You are thoroughly frisked in an exhaustive security check, and have to reserve a time to visit in advance. You would be better off seeing the Statue of Liberty from the ferry that takes you to Ellis Island. The Immigration Museum at Ellis Island is worth a visit, and it is free. The ferry ($10) leaves every 25 minutes from Battery Park and stops at Liberty Island and Ellis Island.

Central Park 
Possibly one of the more infamous locations in New York, Central Park is the stuff of American legend. With its beautiful greenery, sprawling lawns, and lakes, Central park in highly popular with outdoor enthusiasts and concert goers.  It hosts a number of concert venues and is home to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Central Park Zoo. 

Times Square
Another bit of American history, Times Square is a must-see for posterity. In actuality, Times Square is impressive, but it is also highly commercialized and caters mostly to tourists. The “old “Times Square is located near Broadway and the Port Authority Bus Terminal. It has become quite seedy, and thus a "new" Times Square, located blocks away from the old Times Square, has emerged that is a family-friendly, highly commercialized area of themed restaurants, theaters and hotels.

Cathedral of St. John The Divine (http://www.stjohndivine.org)
The Cathedral of St. john the Divine is the world's largest Gothic cathedral and has been a work-in-progress for over a century. Beautiful Gothic architecture and exquisite stained glass windows only add to the loveliness of this amazing building. If you’re in New York, don’t miss the cathedral. It is an incredible sight, and one that rivals the European churches it emulates.

Carnegie Hall (http://www.carnegiehall.org/intro.jsp)
Carnegie Hall is yet another staple of American history, having housed some of this century’s most amazing musicians and performers.  Unless you can afford the tickets for a concert, be content wandering through the beautiful building and looking at pictures of past performers and beautiful people. 
Empire State Building (http://www.esbnyc.com/)
This famous building sits on the equally renowned fifth avenue and was for many years the tallest building in the US. Synonymous with New York, this building, more than any other, personifies the sleek, urban, and cultured New York atmosphere.

World Trade Center Site
The site of the of the September 11th terrorist attacks has become popular with visitors. If you were in New York prior to 9/11, you will be astounded at the emptiness. The previous twin towers have been replaced with memorial pools that are quite beautiful, and various plaques are on display documenting the history of the WTC. 

Chrysler Building 
The Chrysler Building is the epitome of Art Deco architecture and one of the most beautiful and well-known buildings in the world. Visiting the lobby is a must, but you’re not allowed up top unless you are on business. 


http://www.onetravelsource.com


