Title: 
Sightseeing In Munich Germany

Word Count:
596

Summary:
There is a lot to see in Munich, Germany. Late spring and summer are popular tourist times in this city. In addition, the Oktoberfest celebration is a big event. Oktoberfest last for six days and always draws large crowds. There are many hotels and restaurants in addition to unique sightseeing opportunities. 
 
Accommodations in Munich Germany
 
There are several Munich hotels to choose from, many near the Munich airport or the train station. This makes it easier to get a...


Keywords:
munich,germany,austria,bavaria,


Article Body:
There is a lot to see in Munich, Germany. Late spring and summer are popular tourist times in this city. In addition, the Oktoberfest celebration is a big event. Oktoberfest last for six days and always draws large crowds. There are many hotels and restaurants in addition to unique sightseeing opportunities. 
 
Accommodations in Munich Germany
 
There are several Munich hotels to choose from, many near the Munich airport or the train station. This makes it easier to get around without a car. The city offers quite a few good quality, affordable hotels. There are many that have rooms available for about 100 Euros per night.
 
Many restaurants in the city have menus written in English. In addition, a good percentage of the people speak both English and German. This makes communication here easier than in many other areas of Europe. It’s easier to get by here without any German language skills than it is in most other areas of the country. It’s still a good idea to know some basic phrases in German in the event you need something and only German speaking people are nearby. 
 
Sightseeing in Munich Germany
 
There are quite a few tours that you can take while staying in Munich. You can choose between walking and bicycle tours of the city. Some are a one day tour and others are several days or a week long. This gives you the opportunity to spend time touring the area with a knowledgeable guide.
 
The Third Reich Tour takes you to places related to the Nazi Movement in Germany. There is a lot of information about the rise to power of Adolph Hitler. You will experience the architecture and history of the time period. This tour is available throughout the spring, summer and early autumn.
 
Dachau Concentration Camp has been preserved and is open for tours. This was the first concentration camp and is preserved as a memorial to those who lost their lives. Information is written in English and German, allowing you to tour the camp on your own. Guided tours are also available. 

The Bavaria Film Tour is a tour of the largest film and television production studio in Germany. Films such as The Never Ending Story and Cabaret were filmed here. In addition, many current television series in Germany are produced here. During the tour, you will see the scenery and special effects from several movies and television shows. 

Munich is home to Museums, such as Bayeresches National Museum. This is the Bavarian National Museum and has three floors of exhibits, including Gothic and Renaissance art. The BMW Museum has a large collection of cars and motorcycles from the beginning of the company’s history to the present time. When planning your trip, keep in mind that most museums are closed on Mondays. 

Olympic Park is open for tour. This was the site of the 1972 summer Olympics. It is open for sightseeing tours. During your stay you may want to visit the Allianz Football Stadium. In season, you may have the opportunity to watch a match. This has been the location of the Soccer World Cup and is a popular attraction for sporting fans.

Munich is home to many old churches. The Cathedral Church of Our Lady was built in the 15th century. This church contains art and Gothic style architecture. The Church of St. Peter is the oldest in the city, more than 600 years old. St Johann Neponuk Kirch is an ornate church from the Rococo period. Art and architecture lovers will enjoy the ornate historical churches in the region.


