Title: 
Sightseeing Through Historic Cities In Germany

Word Count:
528

Summary:
Ever wonder what it would be like to experience life in Germany? If you want to experience the culture of the historical cities of Germany, it is a good idea to look at the points of interest in the many cities before you go so you can pick out the highlights you are most interested in seeing.

Berlin

As the Capitol of Germany, Berlin is rich in culture, architecture and nightlife. The city is covered with parks, rivers, greenery and bridges. Partake in a walking tour to...


Keywords:
travel,vacation,germany,holiday


Article Body:
Ever wonder what it would be like to experience life in Germany? If you want to experience the culture of the historical cities of Germany, it is a good idea to look at the points of interest in the many cities before you go so you can pick out the highlights you are most interested in seeing.

Berlin

As the Capitol of Germany, Berlin is rich in culture, architecture and nightlife. The city is covered with parks, rivers, greenery and bridges. Partake in a walking tour to get the full effect of this historic German city.

Munich

Munich is a southern city in Germany that is located near the Alps. Best known for hosting the annual Oktoberfest Beer Festival, Munich is also a city filled with cultural activities. This is a great cultural center in Germany with opera, theatre, ballet, museums and galleries. In Munich you will find also the factory of the sports car BMW.

Hannover

Hannover is one of the historic cities in Germany with modern flare. Its main attraction is the beautiful gardens and royal parks. Hannover is also scheduled to host the World Cup 2006 Matches.

Dusseldorf

This German city lies along the Rhine River. It is home to many old castles and historic churches. It is a city full of fashion and culture. 

Cologne

Another city along the Rhine River is Cologne. It is one of the oldest cities in Germany. It is the art metropolis of the area. Even though it is lively with an artsy nature, it also has a neighborly feel. It is popular for its cathedrals and boat tours.

Frankfort

Frankfort is the city in Germany that connects visitors to the rest of Europe. It is the first place people arrive when they enter Germany. It is the finance capital of Germany and boasts that it was home to emperors and kings of centuries past.

Hamburg

Sitting on the River Elbe is the second largest city in Germany, Hamburg. It is the biggest harbor city in Germany. It’s also a beautiful city to tour because two-thirds of the land is covered with parks, trees and lakes.

Stuttgart

Stuttgart is located in the Swabian Mountains on the outskirts of Black Forest. Aside from being well known for being the home of the Mercedes Benz and Porsche, Stuttgart is a German city whose streets are filled with exclusive shops and boutiques. It is also a popular wine area with an annual wine festival.

Dresden

Dresden is the largest metropolitan area in Germany. The city thrives on manufacturing, transportation and culture. The high tech items are what drive their economy and occupy their jobs. It is also a place of art and inspiration.

Kreuzberg

This is a city in Germany known for its alternative style. Their main attractions are bars, clubs, jazz, comedy and other nightlife. Kreuzberg belongs to Berlin.

Freiberg

Tiny streams run through the streets and ally ways to create this unique city in Germany. It is the warmest city and is located in Black Forest. A big feature of this city is its proximity to neighboring countries. With a one-hour train ride, visitors arrive in either Switzerland or France.


