Title: 
Six Great Vegas Hotels

Word Count:
407

Summary:
Tips for six great places to stay during your Las Vegas vacation. These six hotels provide the ultimate in hotel rooms for the discriminating traveler or the first-time visitor.


Keywords:
las vegas, hotels, vacation, hotel, travel, casino


Article Body:
Looking for tips on just the right place to stay on your Las Vegas vacation? There are a lot of great hotels in Vegas, but these six definitely stand out.

Wynn Hotel
The newest masterpiece by Vegas hotel legend Steve Wynn, the 50-story Wynn Hotel opened in 2004 with 2,716 rooms, an 18-hole golf course, 19 restaurants, and 54 private spa treatment rooms. His namesake hotel displays his amazing art collection, offers incredible shopping right on site, and has a posh private lobby for VIPs. And of course, there's an awesome state-of-the-art casino at it's heart.

Bellagio
Built by Steve Wynn in 1998, the lavish Bellagio has excellent rooms, awesome service, and an amazing water fountain show. In December 2004, just before the Wynn Hotel opened, the Bellagio added a special 928-room Spa Tower, boosting total capacity to 3,933 rooms. The Bellagio is so ritzy that they offer a 50-minute body bronzing treatment with real gold dust.

THEhotel at Mandalay Bay
This all-suite exclusive hotel within the larger Mandalay Bay property has 1,117 rooms that aim for a more cosmopolitan clientele than it's namesake parent. Each suite is 725 square feet of luxury with three flat-screen televisions, including one in the mega-swank bathrooms.

Four Seasons
Another swank luxury hotel within the Mandalay Bay complex, the Four Seasons occupies floors 35-39 and has rates much higher than the standard $119-$349 of its parent. Four Seasons guests have their own elevator and entrance, plus pools, spa, and restaurants in an adjacent building.

Ritz Carlton at Lake Las Vegas
The Ritz Carlton hotel is a half-hour's drive from the Strip, but it's renowned for it's golfing and outdoor activities. It nestles against manmade Lake Las Vegas where the water offers a refreshing alternative to the summertime heat. This three-year-old Tuscan-themed resort still maintains a touch of the glitz: Guests can stay on a special bridge with suites built to recreate Florence's legendary Ponte Vecchio (Bridge of Gold).

Venetian Resort Hotel Casino
Located near the Wynn, this 4,027-suite hotel is part of the Sands Hotel group. Rooms are luxuriously appointed and the casino is magnificent. Coming this summer is a new theater hosting Andrew Lloyd Webber's smash hit musical, the "Phantom of the Opera."

So, there you have it. Six great Vegas hotels that will never fail to dazzle and are guaranteed to impress even the most jaded repeat visitor. Just be sure to book ahead to get the best discounts on room rates and snag hard-to-get show tickets well in advance.


