Title: 
Ski-in, ski-out accommodations at Blackcomb

Word Count:
609

Summary:
Outlines the characteristics of different ski-in, ski-out accommodations on the slopes at Blackcomb Mountain


Keywords:
Whistler accommodations, Whistler property management


Article Body:
Whistler is known as a resort with extremely extensive terrain and the highest vertical drop in North America (over one vertical mile from the top of the Blackcomb Glacier down to Whistler Village.   It is also known for a wide variety of ski-in, ski-out accommodation.    However, potential visitors should be aware that not all ski-in, ski-out accommodation is created equal.  For those who do not know Whistler well, here is a brief overview of the major slopeside developments on the lower slopes of Blackcomb Mountain. 

On the Blackcomb side, the largest lodge is The Aspens.   Over 300 one and two-bedroom apartments, a large swimming pool and several outdoor hot tubs, plus a large and comfortable lobby, a ski rental/tuning shop and several other onsite facilities comprise the Aspens complex.  It is right on the edge of the slopes and just a 20 second ski down to the Blackcomb Base.  For easy access to skiing, there is nowhere better than the Aspens.  However the apartments in the Aspens are fairly small (the two-bedroom units are around 850 sq. ft.) and often furnished in a Spartan fashion.  One or two have been extensively upgraded, and these are the ones to go for. 

Next to the Aspens, and also equipped with a pool and hot tubs, is Greystone Lodge.  Some people prefer Greystone Lodge since it is smaller and less like staying in a large amorphous hotel, and its proximity to the slopes is almost equal.  

If you need a larger unit, a little further up the hill is Woodrun Lodge.  This is a cut or two above the Aspens, and has units of up to 4 bedrooms and 1800 sq. ft.  Go for one of these if you are a larger group and want to all be in the same place.  However, the truly premium building on the North side of the Wizard run is Cedar Creek.  A beautiful building, with very few units in the rental market, this is the crème de la crème of multi-unit ski-in, ski-out complexes in Whistler. 

At the bottom of the Wizard are a couple of popular buildings which are very convenient: the Le Chamois Hotel: really a glorified apartment building, and Glacier Lodge.  These contain a variety of accommodation right at the Blackcomb Base

On the other – southern – side of the Wizard lies Pinnacle Ridge.  Pinnacle Ridge is a townhome with over 40 units, some of which are a lost closer to the slopes than others.  Also, some have been extensively upgraded (sometimes to the tune of over $1m in renovations), while others are totally original (read: cheap fittings and drab décor).   Further over again, and a little lower, are Cedar Ridge and Cedar Hollow.  Of the two, Cedar Ridge is somewhat closer to the slopes (but they are both pretty close), whilst Cedar Hollow has the edge in design and interior space.   Cedar Hollow and Cedar Ridge have the great advantage that you can ski down to the top of the Village, not just to the base of Blackcomb: this gives you the option of skiing up Whistler as well as Blackcomb mountain.  

Further down from Cedar Ridge and Cedar Hollow lies Snowy Creek, often considered the best location in Whistler, since uniquely in Whistler it combines ski-in, ski-out with just a two-minute walk to the Village.  Again, the Snowy Creek homes vary greatly in attractiveness, since the ones which haven’t been renovated are fairly grim.    However, due to their proximity to the Village, these are some of the most sought-after units in town. 

So if you are looking for ski-in, ski-out accommodation in Whistler make sure you understand exactly what you are getting.


