Title: 
Spains Costa Blanca

Word Count:
399

Summary:
A brief description on the holiday region of the Costa Blanca in Spain.


Keywords:
Spain, Costa Blanca, holiday, vacation, rentals, villas, apartments, Javea, Moraira, Denia


Article Body:
The Costa Blanca is one of the most popular holiday destinations in Spain. Its' wonderful beaches are one of the main attractions and ideal for water sports for most of the year. Denia and Javea are both located to the north of Alicante and are wonderful towns found at the bottom of a mountain. The holiday town of Moraira is also a favourite choice. Some of the coastal towns such as Gandia, Denia, Alicante and Cartagena have lovely old quarters, which are worth visiting. One of the principal resorts in the north of the Costa Blanca is the holiday resort of Benidorm. It has the attraction of the Terra Mitica theme park, as well as the beaches and the very lively nightlife.

Valencia is Spain's third largest city and is situated among a plain of orange groves. Along with the city of Murcia they both have universities, picturesque cathedrals and an abundance of museums.

The south of the Costa Blanca extends to Torrevieja and La Manga del Mar Menor. Torrevieja, which is approximately 45 minutes drive south of Alicante, is much expanded and before tourism the town's main source of income was sea salt from the large salt lakes which surround the area. There is a huge selection of accommodation to choose from along this coast from luxury Costa Blanca villas overlooking the towns of Denia and Javea in the north, modern holiday apartments in Benidorm at the heart of the nightlife to more rural cortijos and fincas just inland from the coast, yet close to all the activities.

A Costa Blanca holiday offers so much to do, the area is only second to the Costa del Sol in the number of Golf Courses it has, and we have a large selection of golf properties at the Villamartin golf resort and at La Manga. The courses at Villamartin, Las Ramblas and Campoamor offer exciting fairways with each golf course within 5 minutes drive of the other. The other famous golf course at La Manga is situated just to the south of the Mar Menor near to the sea whereas the golf resort of Ciudad Quesada lies inland from Torrevieja.

The Costa Blanca is served by 2 airports, 3 counting the one at Valencia. Alicante is the main international airport with numerous flights per day and the smaller airport of Murcia, next to the Mar Menor is well served with flights from the UK.


