Title: 
Spending Greek Holidays In Chania

Word Count:
551

Summary:
Chania is an ideal location for spending holidays in Greece. The place is full of historical sites and carries all the needed infrastructure for hosting the outside world. Read more about this Greek tourism location.


Keywords:
Accommodation in Chania, Villas Chania, Apartments Chania, Apartments Stavros, Apartments Stavros Chania, Villas Crete, Villas Hania, Accommodation Chania, Holidays in Crete, Holidays in Crete Chania, Holidays in Stavros, Travel To Creta, Hotels Crete, Rooms To Let Chania


Article Body:
Chania is the second largest city of Crete, the largest of Greek Islands in the Mediterranean, with an estimated population of roughly 70000 people across its length and breadth. It lies along the northern Cretan coast and gets applauded for its tourism potential. The city consists of a typical Mediterranean weather with sunny dry summers and slightly moist and rainy winters. Thousands visit Chania every year to have a glimpse of its ancient past, and also to get a taste of its Mediterranean beaches and sea resorts. There are other alternatives available, apart from the usual hotel rooms for having accommodation in Chania, which includes self catering apartments and villas at affordable rates.

The city of Chania could be divided into two major townships, the old and the new ones; the latter being the larger and more developed of the two siblings. The old city, located next to the old harbor, acts as the foundation upon which the new urban infrastructure was developed during the modern era. The city was earlier protected with the old Venetian fortifications that were built around 1538 AD. The eastern and western remains of these fortifications could still be spotted even now. The old city and the areas surrounding it form the core of what we know as the city of Chania these days. The two cities merge into a single entity from the southern front; however they are divided by the sea barrier in the northern part. Many travelers prefer having accommodation in Chania at this scenic joint while they spend holidays in Greece.

The central part of old township is called Kasteli, and is believed to be inhabited by the humans since the Neolithic era. The area is geographically secure and conducive for the human settlements. The seafront next to it provides the right physical barrier and the nearby harbor and fertile valley in the southern area hand it over the needed sustenance. Despite having been partially destroyed in the World War II, the old township of Chania still gets regarded as the most beautiful of all the Cretan regions. Another region Splantzia is located next to Kasteli, and is equally appreciated for its serene backdrop. Some fresh development plans are being envisaged for this region now, which will also try to beef up the amount of accommodation in Chania.

The other sibling of the old Chania is the modern township, where most of Chania’s population resides and works for a living. There has been a substantial migration of the locals during the last two decades towards the modern suburbs and the rural areas surrounding them. Despite having been given the tag of modernity, the new areas of Chania could still be found having a good historical legacy to showcase to the outside world. This is because many new areas were developed during the last two centuries thus making it possible for some of the historic buildings to be preserved even today.

One can see therefore, why Chania was an ideal location for spending holidays in Greece. The place is full of historical sites and carries all the needed infrastructure for hosting the outside world. It's well connected with the mainland Greece and the rest of the world through various means. One can choose to stay in Chania therefore, while being on holidays in Greece.


