Title: 
Spring and summer events in Istanbul

Word Count:
578

Summary:
Guess what’s the only city in the world to straddle two continents? Come on it’s easy one arm reaching out to Asia and the other to Europe?


Keywords:
Hotel, cheap, Istanbul


Article Body:
Of course Istanbul! With the strait of Bosporus in between, it’s itself divided by the Golden Horn (Halic) into the Old City to the south, and Beyoglu and other modern districts to the north. Istanbul throughout the year offers many events and entertainments to its visitors and citizens. Of course, if you’ve got limited time, the Old City is where you should go first as it features all the main sights of the city. 

Here we would like to mention some of the most important for which is worthy to get a flight ticket right now and go!

In April the International Istanbul Film Festival features events and projections in many cinemas in Beyoglu. Almost 200 films running in competitive and no-competitive sections from fiction to documentary or animations will animate Istanbul and your nights!

In May and June if you happen to be around, don’t miss the exciting International Theatre Festival at its 16th edition organized by the istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts. Different venues will host international artists and various sections dedicated to French theatre also. Tickets can be easily purchased at the internet website Biletix. It is important to notice that tickets purchased on-line can be obtained upon presentation of the credit card at the venue at least two hours before the performance begins. Also, in order to avoid queues on the performance night it is advisable that customers get your tickets from one of the BILETIX retail outlets at least one day before the performance. Upon request, tickets can be delivered to address at the expenses of the addressee. You can also see the official website: iksv_org. 

In the same period between May and June the Fujifilm World Music Days and the International Istanbul Puppet Festival are organized. This one in particular for 8 days at various venues hosts many famous national and international puppeteers from literally everywhere. Past editions saw puppeteers from Germany, Austria, Brazil, Spain, Switzerland, Italy, Russia and Taiwan!

If you wish to combine entertainment, culture and a relaxing holiday on the Turkey’s splendid beaches, June is the perfect  period away from the touristy season!! The International Istanbul Music Festival and the International Bosphorus Festival kick off in June. The three-day H2000 Festival is also held in June. If music is irresistible then Turkey summer season doesn’t have to be missed!!

The world renowned International Istanbul Jazz Festival is held every July attracting hundreds of renowned performing artists and musicians from all over the world! So the Efes Pilsen Blues Festival with a story of 10 years now, the intercultural Akbank International Jazz Festival and not least he Yapi Kredi Art Festival, featuring Rock and Roll, pop to classic music and jazz spread throughout the year!

Apart from summer season, where prices are relatively high, during other periods Turkey is very affordable. It won’t be hard to find cheap accommodations to meet all budgets especially if you are ok with a Youth hostel accommodation where they provide you with a bunk bed and a clean international friendly environment! There are many youth hostels for backpackers or travellers featuring Turkish interior designs, mosaics and Turkish baths at affordable prices. There are many on-line bookers also that will make your life much easier allowing you to compare prices, choose your destination, your lodging and book directly throu the web!  We found some on this website (Flashbooking) where many hostels and hotels feature restaurant views over Istanbul Old City.


