Title: 
Spring Break Colorado Style

Word Count:
273

Summary:
The mountains of Winter Park, CO are a powder filled haven for the spring break skier or snowboarder.  Ranked in the top 3 snowy spring break destinations, Winter Park is full of activities for families and students alike.  Lodging information is provided.


Keywords:
Colorado, Spring Break, Winter Park, Skiing, Snowboarding, Vacations, Rentals, Accommodations, Vacation Homes, Condos, Townhomes, CO, Rocky Mountains, Resorts


Article Body:
The time of year is upon us when students from kindergarten through grad school all across the country turn off their over-stressed and sleep deprived minds.  It's time for Spring Break.  Hordes of families, couples, and groups of college kids seek out a week of rest and a warm beach.  For others, mountains of fresh powder complimented by blue skies and sunshine have been the beckoning dream during long nights of cramming and longer days of work.  They want spring break, Colorado style.

Of all the ski resorts in Colorado, Winter Park's "Spring Blast" has been ranked in the top three for spring break visitors.  Located just 1 and 1/2 hours from Denver, Winter Park is easy and cheap to reach by car, bus or train.  The mountain offers world class skiing and the resort and town are loaded with apres-ski spots for the tourists and college kids on break.  Relax on the decks of Derailer, Club Car and Doc's with drink specials and live music, shop the end of season blowout sales in the base shops and town, get free tips from the Winter Park Ski and Snowboard school, and watch the area's best free ride competitors in rail jam competitions.

For your Winter Park, spring break accommodations check out www.vacationsinc.com.  Vacations Inc specializes in vacation home rentals, condominiums, and luxury town homes throughout the Winter Park region.  For large or small groups a private vacation rental home will be your best value.  Condos and town homes await couples and families.  Spring break lodging can be hard to find and late season packages are available.  Don't wait.  The powder's ready!  Book today.


