Title: 
Spring Break On South Padre Island

Word Count:
388

Summary:
South Padre Island is a great place to vacation over Spring Break, especially for College students. Besides offering the usual spring break vacation fare of sand, sun, and fun (of course that's a reference to wild late night partying, beer, wet tshirt contents and the hook up), South Padre Island offers a number of other activities to occupy your time and entertain you during your spring break vacation. 

Fishing - South Padre Island has gained a world wide reputation among...


Keywords:
spring break, south padre island, travel, vacation, destinations, texas


Article Body:
South Padre Island is a great place to vacation over Spring Break, especially for College students. Besides offering the usual spring break vacation fare of sand, sun, and fun (of course that's a reference to wild late night partying, beer, wet tshirt contents and the hook up), South Padre Island offers a number of other activities to occupy your time and entertain you during your spring break vacation. 

Fishing - South Padre Island has gained a world wide reputation among fishermen. Half day and full day fishing trips in the Laguna Madre Bay and the Gulf of Mexico run for less than $20 to $1000 or more depending on your skills, the distance you want to travel (how far offshore) and your lifestyle demands. Since you are fishing a gulf and not your area lake, the list of the type of fish you can catch is long but a few would be: whiting, drum, flounder, trout, redfish, kingfish, wahoo, tuna, marlin and sailfish. 

Windsurfing - Spring Break is obviously during spring time which for windsurfers plying their trade at South Padre Island is the best time with spring's windy days. Known as one of the top windsurfing destinations in the world, South Padre Island offers some of the fastest windsurfing speeds in North America at places like, the bay, the Jetties, Bocas Chica, and the Ditch. 

Kiteboarding - College spring breakers have never shied away from a challenge and kiteboarding is just that. One of the fasting growing and certainly hottest sports going, kiteboarding is challenging and adrenaline pumping and South Padre Island with consistent winds that offer beginner to experts near perfect flat-water conditions, is a great place to hone your kiteboarding skills. 

Matamoros, Mexico - What's a vacation without souvenirs? Bargain shop across the border at American friendly, Matamoros, Mexico. You will find silver, leather goods, handicrafts and much more while strolling through this old Mexican town and it's busy markets. Dine on authentic Mexican food, enjoy museums and the culture of Mexico, just thirty minutes from South Padre Island. 

While this is not a complete list of things to do during your spring break vacation on South Padre Island, hopefully it got you thinking of making your trip a bit more adventurous and thus your memories of spring break at South Padre Island that much more special.


