Title: 
Sun, Sea, Sand, Jomtien Beach – Thailand

Word Count:
485

Summary:
For the ultimate beach vacation there is no better location than that of “Jomtien Beach” in Thailand
Which is just a two hours ride in a taxi from Bangkok Airport.


Keywords:
 beach,vacation


Article Body:
For the ultimate beach vacation there is no better location than that of “Jomtien Beach” in Thailand. Which is just a two hours ride in a taxi from Bangkok Airport.The Jomtien Beach is located about two kilometers from its busy counterpart resort of South Pattaya. 

Jomtien Beach and the area along its beach road have now become more and more popular for swimming, water sports and activities because it has a long straight coastline and they’re being less boats anchored in its waters. There are very many good quality hotels, bungalows and guesthouses. A wide range of small and large condominiums is also available for short or long term rental and many good restaurants serving a wide variety of fresh seafood with a full range of Thai cuisine and International dishes. 


Many tourists come to this area to just enjoy the scenery and the beach. Chairs are available to sit with a table to have food and drink served directly to you as you soak up the sun or simply lay back and listen to the waters lapping on the sand. Go swimming or enjoy water sports such as wind surfing, ride a water scooter, parasail or take a speed boat ride, even water skiing is possible.
 
The Jomtien Beach has good quality white sand and a very long coastline to enjoy. The beach is much more peaceful here than its counterpart of Pattaya further up the coast. The beaches are always kept in a pristine condition by the many vendors who are there to look after all your needs. 

Along the early part of the straight beach road you will find many souvenir shops, international restaurants, food stalls. But at the far end of the beach road there are very good seafood restaurants and it is where you can find yourself at times the only person soaking up the sun.

You can also swim late into the night along a large part of the beach as the sands are floodlit which makes for a very safe environment to swim after the sun has gone down. May be you only want to simply find a quiet bar for any drink of your choosing. Many are available and the prices have to be seen to be believed.

Jomtien beach simply has it all without having to travel long distances. But if you fancy a more adventurous evening and want to enjoy a full range of nightlife activities Pattaya is just a few minutes down the coast. Transportation around the Pattaya and Jomtien area is simple. The open pick up cars  (Baht buses as they are locally called)  are running all the time. Just hail one down and climb aboard.

Jomtien is one place in the world where a good quality beach vacation is simplicity itself.
How do I know these things – I live there.


 

Author – Barry Hooper – can be contacted at – basthehoop@hotmail.co


