Title: 
Take a trip to New Zealand

Word Count:
585

Summary:
New Zealand has such a variety of natural beauty all in one country. From icy glaciers, hot geysers, mountains, forests, beaches and deep bays. Active, outdoor lovers are spoilt for choice with skiing, boating, hiking, fishing and much more.


Keywords:
New Zealand, Hotels, Accommodation, Cheap, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch


Article Body:
Auckland: Sailors paradise
On the North Island of New Zealand you’ll find Auckland, a large city set around stunning inlets and bays. Not surprisingly, most of the Auckland's most celebrated activities are to do with water. These include dinner cruises in the harbor and swimming with dolphins.
 
Transport: how to get there and around:
New Zealand’s main international airport is situated in Auckland. This makes it accessible to direct flights from the US, Australia, Asia and Europe. Flights also run domestically from the South Island to Auckland.

Auckland city covers a wide area so it is recommended to get around using a bicycle or taxi. To reach other towns and attractions, there are bus and rail services.

Weather
Owing to its location in the southern hemisphere, summer in New Zealand is from November to April. In summer temperatures are around 20 C and the winter is fairly mild as it doesn’t usually freeze.

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of hotels in Auckland.

Attractions & Events 
There are events held all year in Auckland, although the city really comes to life in the summer time.

*Sports fans can enjoy January with the Open Tennis Championships and the Captain Hobson Anniversary Day Regatta.

*In March, Western Springs holds the Pasifika Festival with Polynesian music and performances. 

*Auckland Botanical Gardens have a show in November called the Ellerslie Flower Show. 

Wellington: Attractive city of views 
The capital city, Wellington is surrounded by hills and offers some splendid views of the Harbor. Home to the main government buildings, Wellington also has a bustling cafe and entertainment culture.

Transport: how to get there and around:
Domestic flights from Auckland and Christchurch as well as other destinations connect with Wellington airport. A ferry also makes it possible to reach the south island town of Picton. 

A major bus route runs from Auckland to Wellington. To get around in and around the city itself there are local train and bus services, as well as taxi’s.  
    
Weather
Situated on the coast, Wellington can suffer from windy weather. 

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of hotels in Wellington.

Attractions & Events
Many sporting and cultural events take place in the capital city, here are just a few.
 
*During January, the city hosts Wellington Cup Week with fashion, live music and of course horse racing.   

*The Arts Festival is held in January with International artists taking part.

*The Jazz festival and Fashion Festival are both during October.

Christchurch: Have fun with nature
From Christchurch you can access nature and have fun on New Zealand’s plains, lakes, mountains and beaches. Being the largest city in the Southern Island, there are always attractions for visitors such as the Antarctic Centre, wildlife showcases, gondola trips and more.  

Transport: how to get there and around:
The international airport of the South Island is in Christchurch, connecting with Australia and several other destinations. Air New Zealand serves other domestic locations. Getting around is simple with the city’s cost effective bus service and reliable rail network.

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of hotels in Christchurch.

Attractions & Events:
*An international festival of flowers is held in Christchurch during the month os February.

*Fine music, food and wine can be enjoyed during Augusts International Jazz Festival


