Title: 
Take a Romantic Getaway on Exclusive Catalina Island

Word Count:
413

Summary:
Vacations are for getting away; getting away from work, stress, and for you over-worked parents: the kids. So this next vacation, leave the kids at home and take an inexpensive romantic getaway on the island known as The Island of Romance: Catalina Island. This exclusive island off the coast of California is offering visitors packages and discount rates from April 1 to June 15, 2006.


Keywords:
travel, romantic, getaways, catalina island, California, Los Angeles, vacation


Article Body:
Vacations are for getting away; getting away from work, stress, and for you over-worked parents: the kids. So this next vacation, leave the kids at home and take an inexpensive romantic getaway on the island known as The Island of Romance: Catalina Island. This exclusive island off the coast of California is offering visitors packages and discount rates from April 1 to June 15, 2006. 

Romance Getaway packages include round trip boat transportation, accommodations, and include other bonus gifts such as free champagne and chocolates, spa treatments, sightseeing tours and complimentary breakfast. The room rates start as low as $154 per person. 

Catalina Island is located just 22 miles off of the coast of Los Angeles. It has been inhabited for nearly 7,000 years beginning with the Gabrieliño Indians. The Spanish explorer Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo became the first European to visit the island in 1542, and since then the tiny island has changed ownership several times and is now owned privately

In the late 1880’s, George Shatto, the owner at the time decided to turn Catalina Island into a notable tourist destination. It was he who had the idea to build the town of Avalon, which remains the islands only city and main hub of activity. To bring in the tourists, Shatto constructed golf courses, and hotels galore. He also encouraged people to go hunting, and to pursue other outdoor activities. 

Today, the island still maintains its historic beauty. Though it contains all essential utilities such as electricity, water and phones, it obtains its drinking water by collecting rainwater in specified areas throughout the island. The water is then purified and piped to the towns of Avalon and Two Harbors.

The island, which is the closest island to the mainland, is easy to get to and offers an appetizing array of activities and special events throughout the spring, including:


* Jewels of Avalon Tile Walking Tours
* Earth Day Celebration
* 12th Annual Catalina Island Rugby Festival
* 1st Annual Catalina Island Hoe-Down
* 19th Annual Silent Film Benefit
* Conservancy Summer Naturalist Programs 

Avalon, the island’s only city, offers a unique romantic setting that is part of Catalina’s Mediterranean charm.  Many of the hotels on the island have in-room fireplaces, whirlpool Jacuzzi tubs, private balconies, and ocean views. 

For more information about Catalina Island, including transportation, hotel availability, activities, and special events, visit http://www.CatalinaChamber.com. For more information about the history of the beautiful island of Catalina visit http://www.colapublib.org/history/catalina/, http://www.catalina.com/history.html


