Title: 
Ten Free Attractions For The Las Vegas Bride And Groom

Word Count:
457

Summary:
If you’re getting married in Las Vegas, here are some free attractions to help make your wedding trip even more memorable.


Keywords:
Las Vegas free attractions, Las Vegas wedding, get married in Las Vegas


Article Body:
If you’re getting married in Las Vegas, here are some free attractions to help make your wedding trip even more memorable.

1.  Bellagio Fountains

The Bellagio Fountains on the Strip put on a show that anyone can watch for free. Music plays and the jets of water dance to the tune.  The shows last two to three minutes, depending on the music.  It’s even better at night when the fountains are lit with beautiful lights, adding to the magic of the fountains.

Showtimes:  Monday-Friday 3pm-8pm every half hour, 8pm-12am every 15 minutes.    Saturday-Sunday: 12pm-8pm every half hour, 8pm-12am every 15 minutes.

2.  Bellagio Conservatory and Botanical Gardens

You’ll find the Botanical Gardens past the Bellagio’s lobby.  Enjoy strolling among the wonderful seasonal display of plants and flowers.  You can even take photos there.

3.  MGM Grand Lion Habitat

Inside the casino you can view lions daily from 11am-10pm.  It’s a wonderful experience and there are plenty of Lion Habitat souvenirs you can buy at the gift shop.

4.  White Tigers at the Mirage

View Siegfried & Roy’s white tigers in their specially designed habitat at the Mirage.  The public are able to see these majestic creatures throughout the day and evening.  

5.  Volcano at the Mirage

On the hour from 7pm-12am daily, you can watch the volcano erupt.  It’s located at the front of the Mirage and looks really impressive against the darkness of the night sky.

6.  Aquarium at the Mirage

Located behind the front desk and a must see for aquarium lovers is a 53 foot long aquarium which boasts over 1,000 creatures from all over the world including Australia, Fiji and the Caribbean.

7.  Sirens of TI

Daily at 7pm, 8.30pm, 10pm and 11.30pm, the Sirens of TI live show is a seventeenth century battle between attractive sirens and a group of pirates.  Located at the front of Treasure Island and featuring music and dancing, it’s a fun show.

8.  M&M’s World

M&M’s World is next door to MGM Grand.    You can watch a free 3D movie and  have lots of fun exploring the four floors that make up M&M’s World.

9.  Circus Acts at Circus Circus

Every half hour from 11am-12am daily you can see exciting live circus acts at the carnival midway.

10.  Ethel M Factory

Only 15 minutes from the Strip, the Ethel M Factory offers a free self guided tour, viewing of the Living Machine and a stroll through the Botanical Cactus Garden.  See www.ethelm.com.

The above information was current at time of writing. Las Vegas is ever changing so it might be a good idea to check that these free attractions are still available when you plan your trip to Las Vegas.


