Title: 
Teterboro, New Jersey: A General Aviation Town

Word Count:
382

Summary:
Teterboro, NJ is situated just south of Hackensack at the edge of the Meadowlands and is twelve miles from midtown Manhattan. This Bergen County borough is mostly known for its airport, as the residential properties in the town are few. Indeed, recent census figures put the town’s population at just 18 souls! Meanwhile, business dominates the town and the airport, named for the town, is the chief job generator in the town as well as in surrounding communities.


Keywords:
Teterboro Airport, Fixed Based Operators, First Aviation, Atlantic Aviation, Million Air, jets, air


Article Body:
Tiny Teterboro, New Jersey is situated just south of Hackensack at the edge of the Meadowlands only twelve miles from midtown Manhattan. This Bergen County borough is mostly known for its airport, as the residential properties in the town are few. Indeed, recent census figures put the town’s population at just 18 souls! Meanwhile, business dominates the town and the airport, named for the town, is the chief job generator in the town as well as in surrounding communities.

At just over one square mile, Teterboro certainly is easily missed. Bordered by state highways 46 to the north and 17 to the west, the town would certainly be overlooked unless you failed to notice the regular flow of general aviation traffic entering and leaving the airport. Indeed, <b>Teterboro Airport {TEB}</b> ranks as one of the busiest general aviation airports in the country serving Piper and Cessna owners all the way up to Gulfstream V charter operators.

In 1917, a Mr. Walter C. Teter purchased what is now known as Teterboro from North American Aviation, who had operated a plant on its site during the first world war. Over the years, the airport changed hands several times until, finally, in 1949 the <u>Port Authority of New York and New Jersey</u> purchased the airport. Since then the authority has operated the airport through contractors or has managed it directly; vast improvements to Teterboro Airport have been made since the authority assumed control.

Teterboro is the home to numerous aviation companies including Atlantic Aviation, Million Air, Jet Aviation, First Aviation Services, and Signature Flight Support. All five companies operate what are known as Fixed Based Operations {FBOs} which provide essential airport services including aircraft fueling, passenger processing, and more. In addition, aircraft hangars occupy key sections of the airport for operators to house their expensive business jets within.

One of the most famous landmarks in the Teterboro is the <b>Aviation Hall of Fame & Museum of NJ</b>. Located on the airport grounds the museum, which opened in 1972, was the first state aviation museum in the nation. Aviation pioneers Charles Lindbergh and Amelia Earhardt both flew in and out of Teterboro. 

Towns bordering Teterboro include: South Hackensack, Little Ferry, Moonachie, Wood-Ridge, and Hasbrouck Heights. Indeed, the entire lower third of the airport actually falls within the boundaries of Moonachie.


