Title: 
The Bahamas, So Near Yet So Far

Word Count:
305

Summary:
Made up of about 700 islands and located just a short flight or cruise from the mainland United States, the Bahama Islands are a wonderful tropical retreat. It is perhaps the most popular destination for cruisers, especially first time cruisers. Like its Western "cruise cousin", the 3-day jaunts to Ensenada and points in Nortwest Mexico, a Bahamas cruise is a great choice of busy people who need a few nights away from it all.

Nassau, the capital city on the island of New P...


Keywords:
tropics,travel,cruise,cruising,flying,beach,sun,entertainment


Article Body:
Made up of about 700 islands and located just a short flight or cruise from the mainland United States, the Bahama Islands are a wonderful tropical retreat. It is perhaps the most popular destination for cruisers, especially first time cruisers. Like its Western "cruise cousin", the 3-day jaunts to Ensenada and points in Nortwest Mexico, a Bahamas cruise is a great choice of busy people who need a few nights away from it all.

Nassau, the capital city on the island of New Providence, is an easy to explore city with losts of history, shopping and food. A day's excursion brings with it ample charm by exploring it's grand architecture and getting to know its charming residents.

The architecture is mostly 18th and 19th century colonial which remind one of the city's origins as a modern city. Be sure to see Parliament Square when you tour the city to get a real feel for the history of the islands.

Like tropical beaches? Make sure to leave time for relaxing on the Bahamas' warm Caribbean beach and waters. Here you'll find sailing, snorkling and diving opportunities. Or, just kick back and enjoy the wonderful tropical sun.

And, when you're ready to kick up your heels and party, the nightlife in Nassau is alive with great dining and casinos and nightlclubs.

Freeport, the Bahamas' second city on Grand Bahama is a must visit. Like its name implies, Freeport offers duty free shopping in its huge internationa bazaar. Bring your credit card!

But Freeport is not just for shoppers. It's night life is known the world over. It offers world renowned entertainment and cuisine.

The Bahamas are just a short hop away. But, even though close, offers American travelers a whole different world. Visit this tropical paradise. You won't come away dissapointed.


