Title: 
The Perfect Place For Men To Ditch The Daily Grind

Word Count:
344

Summary:
With guys' getaways becoming a hugh travel trend, many men have discovered Panama City Beach, Fla., is the perfect place for guys to escape the wife and kids or the constant buzzing of their BlackBerries and enjoy some time with "the boys."


Keywords:
The Perfect Place For Men To Ditch The Daily Grind


Article Body:
With guys' getaways becoming a huge travel trend, many men have discovered Panama City Beach, Fla., is the perfect place for guys to escape the wife and kids or the constant buzzing of their BlackBerries and enjoy some time with "the boys." Area enticements for men include battling the big one while deep-sea fishing, an afternoon golfing, racing through the waves on jet skis, or just relaxing on the warm white sands. Whatever the activity, guys enjoy getting away to Florida's Gulf Coast for the weekend. 

One resort is leading the way with the "Boys and Their Toys" program. Edgewater Beach Resort offers a getaway in which the revelry, golf and water sports take center stage as soon as the men step out of their cars and into the bright Florida sunshine, starting with an escape to the sparkling, emerald-green waters of Panama City Beach, home of the Annual Baypoint Invitational Billfish Tournament, the premier fishing tournament on the Gulf Coast. With customized buckets of beer from Edgewater Beach Resort's Bimini Sand Bar on board, anglers reel in blue marlin, tuna, wahoo, cobia, king mackerel and sailfish, on a half-day deep-sea fishing excursion. 

Men enjoy a little male bonding and some friendly ribbing as they swap "fish tales" at Hombre Golf Course, consisting of three nines-the good, the bad and the ugly-offering golfers a course with holes of widely varying looks, lengths and orientations. When the boys return to Edgewater Beach Resort from playing a round of golf, they let loose on the Gulf by renting jet skis and racing through the waves before heading to Palapa Beach Club at Edgewater Beach Resort, where they gear up for a night on the town. 

Offering a relaxed atmosphere with 550 full-service suites, the boys not only have toys but access to a half mile of private beach, a nine-hole executive course, four hot tubs, 11 plexicushion tennis courts, spa and fitness center, and 12 pools, including the famous 11,000-sq.-ft. Polynesian-style Lagoon Pool that flourishes with cascading waterfalls and lies at the center of activity for the resort.


