Title: 
The Ultimate Traveler's Day Dream Come True

Word Count:
390

Summary:
More than a few times, I’ve caught myself sitting at work day dreaming about dropping everything and just jumping on a plane. In October of 2003, I did just that.


Keywords:
travel, traveling, traver, trip, dream trip, asia, korean airlines, american express, traveler check


Article Body:
More than a few times, I’ve caught myself sitting at work day dreaming about dropping everything and just jumping on a plane. In October of 2003, I did just that.

Life can grind you down when you get in a rut. In my case, I had a particularly bad case of the blues in October 2003. My girlfriend and I had apparently come to an agreement that there was no need for me to exist on the face of the earth. My glamorous and exciting Internet business had become a bore. All and all, I was in a rut and needed a change. The travel gods apparently agreed.

On a Wednesday, I made the final decision to sell my business, get what I could for it and hit the road. The next day, I received a call from a man in Chicago what wanted to buy my web sites. This was particularly interesting since I hadn’t actually told anyone the sites were for sale. By the end of the day, we had agreed on a price, signed a contract and he was wiring the money.

First thing Monday morning, my bank verified the wired money had been received and credited to my bank account. I picked up a couple of American Express checks, packed a small backpack and headed to the airport in Los Angles, known as “LAX”.

The Dream Comes True

I walked into the international wing of LAX and did what every traveler has dreamed of doing. I stared at the flight board and just let the various destinations soak into my brain. After a few minutes, Asia percolated to the top of my grey matter and I started searching for the airlines with flights there.

After a few misses, I was able to get a ticket on a Korean Airlines flight to Bangkok. I passed through security, picked up a guidebook for Asia and headed to my gate. Three hours later, we lifted off the runway and I waived goodbye to rut for three months.

I’ve disdained heavy planning for my trips. I prefer a very loose schedule because I want time to live out unexpected events. If you ever get the chance to chuck everything and go travel for a few months, just do it. You never know when you’ll get the chance again!


