Title: 
The beautiful Agios Konstantinos

Word Count:
353

Summary:
The municipality of Agios Konstantinos counts with an important amount of mountains in such a way that it is surrounded by mountainous landscapes at each one of its borders.


Keywords:
europe, greece, travel, vacation, holiday, tourism


Article Body:
Agios Konstantinos is a destination situated within central Greece, within the region of Attica, to the north of Cape Sounion, and at about 50 kilometers from the southern side of Athens. This spot, also known as Konstandinos or Ayios Konstandino, was formerly called Kamariza and then Maronia in ancient times. Those tourists who visit this region of Greece should try to stop at this place and enjoy its beautiful environment since it would allow them to relax and renew their energies.

Agios Konstantinos has a very small amount of inhabitants spread throughout its territory. This destination is very appealing and interesting due to its general characteristics, the landscapes it offers, the life style of its inhabitants, the natural elements it has, the amazing landscapes surrounded by mountains, and several other reasons which cause it to be a unique spot.

The municipality of Agios Konstantinos counts with an important amount of mountains in such a way that it is surrounded by mountainous landscapes at each one of its borders. Besides these mountains and rocks, this spot also counts with important extensions of grasslands and beautiful green areas in which tourists can breathe amazing fresh air and observe beautiful landscapes.

The economy of Agios Konstantinos is mainly based on agriculture, mineral rock derivates and farm products. This spot shows many agricultural plantations and farms spread throughout its entire territory and which provide it with a very special and charming appearance. Traditions and country side life style predominate in this area in such a way that visitors could meet many of the same cultural aspects it had centuries ago.

The municipality of Agios Konstantinos is also famous by the mineral rocks that can be found in it. This area is rich in mineral rocks such as chalcoalumite, austinite, adamite, and azurite among others. These minerals can be found at some points in Agios Konstantinos as well as towards Lavrio, an interesting neighboring town. Those tourists whovisit Lavrio should always try to meet Agios Konstantinos as well and relax surrounded by a very attractive natural environment which combines mountains, green areas, and traditions in a very peculiar way.


