Title: 
The Great Barrier Reef: A Must See

Word Count:
419

Summary:
It has been my privilege over the past twenty years to travel to many parts of the globe. When I was hired to be a traveling photojournalist for a popular travel magazine, I had no real idea what kind of life lay ahead of me. I never really expected to spend weeks on an African safari or climbing the Great Wall of China. I guess I sort of expected that my job would take me to places like Kansas and Canada. I have made it to nearly one hundred countries now, and I have a short...


Keywords:
great barrier reef


Article Body:
It has been my privilege over the past twenty years to travel to many parts of the globe. When I was hired to be a traveling photojournalist for a popular travel magazine, I had no real idea what kind of life lay ahead of me. I never really expected to spend weeks on an African safari or climbing the Great Wall of China. I guess I sort of expected that my job would take me to places like Kansas and Canada. I have made it to nearly one hundred countries now, and I have a short list of favorite places that I've seen. For the most part I would be happy never returning to the places I've seen, but there are a few that stick out that I must see again in my life. Australia's Great Barrier Reef is one of those places that I just cannot get enough of.

My coworkers laugh at me for how many times I suggest the Great Barrier Reef when we need an article or a spread of photos for an upcoming issue. They all know how much I love the reef and how I'm dying to go back at any chance I get. We sit in staff meetings and I slyly or not-so-slyly suggest the Great Barrier Reef as often as I can. It has worked sometimes because I have been able to travel to this beautiful part of the world six times now. My coworkers have said that my turn is up because they all want to go as well.

The Great Barrier Reef is simply breathtaking, and Australia is not bad itself. I love going there for work or for play. I have been able to bring my family with me three times and they have loved it as much as I can. There is nothing like spending a day deep sea diving around the most famous reef in the world. I have captured a collection of the most amazing underwater shots from the Great Barrier Reef.

So if you're looking for a beautiful location for your next vacation, look no further than to Australia and the Great Barrier Reef. Talk with a travel agent or get online to find the best deals. There are often great packages that can be purchased that include airfare, hotel and excursions, so just take your time and look carefully.

The world is a beautiful place. Few places compete with the beauty and wonder of the Great Barrier Reef though. See it for yourself.


