Title: 
The Seville region of Spain

Word Count:
343

Summary:
A look at Seville, the capital region of Andalucia


Keywords:
Andalucia, Seville, Spain, rentals, towns, holiday, vacation, white villages, Mediterranean


Article Body:
SEVILLE

Seville (Sevilla), the capital of Andalucia stands on the banks of the Rio Guadalquivir which has sculpted the surrounding landscape and left the area a fertile plain, perhaps one of the reasons that Seville is such a beautiful city with its lush sub tropical gardens.

You need at least a few days in which to explore Seville, though falling in love with this ancient city will take far less time.  Exploring by foot is the best way to get to know Sevilla, La Arenal is a good place to start.  The port of Seville was once here, before the river silted up and the area took a downward turn, becoming entwined with the notorious underworld.  However after the river was converted to a canal, the area began to regain its previous glory.  Today boat trips can be taken down the river to view Seville from the peace of the water.  The Plaza de Toros de la Maestranza is Seville’s bullring and built in the 18th century is one of the oldest in Spain.  The arena seats up to 14000 and visitors can take guided tours here.  Bullfighting season beings on Easter Sunday and lasts until October.

Santa Cruz is the old Jewish quarter, a literal maze of narrow streets, and small sunny squares hiding tapas bars, plazas and quaint gardens. Excellent bars and restaurants can be found here. Seville’s cathedral towers above the Jewish quarter and was previously the site of a large mosque when Sevilla was under Moorish rule.  Don't leave Seville without visiting one of its wonders, the Reales Alcazares, Royal Palace.  The palace is a work of art in itself and the beauty of the buildings, facades and gardens will take your breath away.

Leaving the city into the region also known as Seville, we find a countryside of distinctive flavours. The area around Seville, as mentioned previously is a fertile farmland, La Campina.  To the north of the region you'll find the La Colmarca de la Sierra a mountainous area with lots of options for outdoor activities.


