Title: 
The Cadiz region of Spain

Word Count:
302

Summary:
A short view of the Cadiz region of Spain


Keywords:
Andalucia, Cadiz, Costa de la Luz, Spain, rentals, towns, holiday, vacation, white villages, Mediterranean


Article Body:
CADIZ

Cadiz, to the south of Huelva province shares the same stretch of coastline, the Costa de la Luz (Coast of Light), an Atlantic coastline, with long stretches of uncrowded pristine sand. Windsurfers and para-surfers will have heard of Tarifa, the most southern point of the Cadiz region, which as you would expect is renown for its constant breeze. 

Inland, the area is dotted with pretty white picture postcard villages which during the cooler months lie in pleasantly green hills refreshed by the moist air brought in from the Atlantic, compared to the drier Malaga region. 

One of the most interesting of the towns is Jerez de la Frontera, the capital of the sherry region and many of the bodegas offer visitors a tour of how the sherry is made.  Gonzalez Byass and Pedro Domecq should be names known to those who appreciate a tipple.  The famous white horses of Andalucia, are trained at the famous equestrian school, Real Escuela Andaluza de Arte Ecuestre.

Cadiz city is steeped in history, legend has it that the city was founded by Hercules, though more probably it was initially established by the Phoenicians in 1100BC.  Over the centuries the city has been inhabited by Carthaginians, Romans and Moors.  Set on a peninsula of land, almost entirely surrounded by the sea, Cadiz has often been the target of attack, mainly from the British with the first attack coming from Sir Francis Drake in 1587.

Cadiz is a wonderful place to explore, with many narrow streets and alleyways opening into market squares full of life.

Accommodation is usually of a very high standard, and whether you stay in a rural self catering rental in Jimena de la Frontera to sample the sherry or a cosy guest house, bed and breakfast in Cadiz, you'll have a holiday to remember.


