Title: 
The (Electric) Sun Never Sets in Las Vegas

Word Count:
450

Summary:
This sparkly mirage sprouting from the middle of Nevada’s massive Mojave Desert will draw any willing soul into its decadent embrace, thirst or no thirst. Las Vegas’ adult-sized playground of gargantuan casinos, shops and amusement parks, linked to one another by moving walkways and trams, will keep you guessing what time of day it is - until you finally realize that it just doesn’t matter.


Keywords:
Las Vegas, travel to Las Vegas, discount aifare to Las Vegas, cheap tickets, cheap airfare, Las Vegas travel information, travel deals


Article Body:
This sparkly mirage sprouting from the middle of Nevada’s massive Mojave Desert will draw any willing soul into its decadent embrace, thirst or no thirst. Las Vegas’ adult-sized playground of gargantuan casinos, shops and amusement parks, linked to one another by moving walkways and trams, will keep you guessing what time of day it is - until you finally realize that it just doesn’t matter. Over 40 luxury hotel-casinos line the Strip, the heart of Las Vegas Boulevard, each with their own set of swanky nightclubs, world-famous restaurants, 24-hour buffets and award-wining shows.

The Entertainment Capital of the World
Las Vegas did not earn this accolade by chance. It is the home of the internationally acclaimed Cirque du Soleil, the funky Blue Man Group, an abundance of unparalleled theater performances, and, of course, the world famous Las Vegas showgirls. At the southern end of the Strip, Mandalay Bay Hotel & Casino is attached to a giant arena that showcases America’s top boxing matches. The House of Blues concert venue and restaurant is also located within Mandalay Bay, with its own Foundation Room bar/lounge on the roof offering the most spectacular view of Las Vegas (open to the public on Tuesday nights). Indulge in the luxury of The Bellagio Hotel & Casino’s top-rated Prime Steakhouse and ultra-chic Light nightclub. This is also where you’ll find the most intimidating high-limit tables in Vegas.

Not Necessarily Sin City 
Although this “City of Sin” lets you wander from place to place with your massive cocktail at any hour of the day, Las Vegas makes a concerted effort to ensure that you don’t have to leave the kids at home (unless, of course, you want to). There is something for everyone, which makes this city the perfect destination for just about anyone with a hankering for fun, games and top-notch entertainment. Packed with tots, teens, twenty-somethings and the timeless, the cutting-edge video arcades are a modern virtual wonder. The MGM Grand, known for its larger-than-life tendencies, boasts a 171,500 square-foot mega-arcade full of the most mind-boggling virtual reality games including a virtual boxing game guaranteed to knock you out. New York New York Hotel has its very own 32,000 square-foot Coney Island Emporium, complete with a roller coaster and a Daytona racing simulator.

Day and night, Las Vegas is a playfully extravagant extra-sensory neon mecca that is the perfect place to de-stress and loosen that firm grip on reality. Travel to Las Vegas to eat, drink, play and party among the finest this world has to offer. Leave your conscience, cares, and camera at home because, as they say, what happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas. For more information, visit http://www.cfares.com.


