Title: 
The northern Costa Blanca, Spain

Word Count:
865

Summary:
A description of the northern Costa Blanca and its towns.


Keywords:
Spain, Costa Blanca, holiday, vacation, rentals, villas, apartments, Javea, Moraira, Denia, Calpe


Article Body:
A holiday in the northern Costa Blanca is set within a greener and more rugged landscape than the south which is relatively flat and dry. The climate here is mild throughout the year with an average of 320 days sunshine each year, perfect for spending time lazing on the many Blue Flag beaches dotted along this coastline.

Apartment from Benidorm the area is not so commercialised as the south and though there are areas of construction, as in most of Spain, you can still find unspoilt Spanish villages and ports. Inland from the seaside resort of Denia and Javea, most popular with vacationers, you will find the Jalon Valley, a rural area of natural beauty and noted for its vineyards and wine. Further to the north the vineyards make way to citrus groves. The hills of the northern Costa Blanca are predominently covered in pine trees, which along with the citrus trees gives a distinctive Mediterranean fragence.

Benidorm has come a long way from its days as the being a bucket and spade resort, and is now much more upmarket. It still has 2 beaches giving 4 miles of soft sand, perfect for family holidays and the best nightlife on the Costa Blanca, though the resort has so much more to offer with its delightful Old Town and the theme park of Terra Mitica.

To the north of Benidorm is the white washed village of Altea set on the coast infront of an impressive backdrop of hills, the Sierra de Bernia. Altea is largely untouched by mass tourism and so still retains its old Spanish feel. Altea is famous for the church of Virgin de Consuelo with its blue dome, a symbol of this region. The beach here is 6km long, broken down into smaller bathing area by cliffs. A long promenade runs along the beach. A holiday rentals in Altea offers a more peaceful location, yet close to the resort of Benidorm for day trips.

Calpe is dominated by the towering Penon de Ifach, a vertically sided rock that protrudes from the Mediterranean over the town. The town, once an ancient fishing village is now one of the most popular resorts in the northern Costa Blanca with its quaint Valencian charm and beautiful sandy beaches. The town still has its fishing port, where you can watch the daily catch, though next door a stunning marina houses dream yachts.

A glimpse of Calpes past can be viewed from the old town walls beside the Moorish quarter, used to defend the town against the pirate attacks. Calpes Romain heritage can be seen at the remains of the Roman villa next to the Paseo Maritimo, and more at the towns Musem of Archeology. Self catering Calpe comes in many forms from frontline beach apartments on Calpes beaches to luxury villas overlooking Calpe and the Penon de Ifach.

Between Calpe and Moraira is the small village of Benissa withs it not to be missed Cathedral of the Marina Alta.

The small town of Moraira is set on the Mediterranean with a backdrop of hills, rising upwards towards the Jalon Valley. About 1 hour from the airport at Alicante, Moraira's climate averages 18 degrees over the year with an impressive 325 day average of sunshine.

The town maintain its fishing port history which can still be seen at the interesting fish auction from Tuesday to Sunday on the harbour side, many of the fishes caught ending up on a plate in one of the excellent restaurants and bars around the modern marina and port.

Moraira has 8km of shoreline to choose from, many of the beaches designated Blue Flag. Many of the Moraira holiday rentals are luxury villas with private pool set in the hills with outstanding vistas over this region.

Javea is set in an area of outstanding beauty. The town has an historic past and the old town is beautiful to behold with its traditional buildings with their small balonies looking out towards the main Javea beach of Playa del Arenal with its long stretch of sand. Bars and restaurants can be found alongside the Avenida del Mediterraneo alongside the Javea harbor area. Many of the Javea accommodation rentals on the site have spectacular views from the hills overlooking the town of Javea and its beaches.

Denia is much more a family resort, a quiet town based around a fishing port, where the daily catch is unloaded and sold at the town market. Voted as the 3rd most healthiest place to live, Denia climate, like most of the towns in this region is mild yet with long sunshine hours and an average yearly temperature of 19 degrees. This climate is ideal for the oranges and lemon groves around the area, as well as an ideal climate for holiday makers.

Much of Denia's history can be seen at the Castle, dating back to Roman times and open to the public, the castle is also the museum of archaeology. Inland from Denia is the golf resort of La Sella, where we also advertise many properties, perfect for the golfer amongst you. With over 20km of shoreline to relax on, a holiday villa Denia is a perfect place to stay for families looking for a quieter location.


