Title: 
The Enchanting South West of Australia

Word Count:
496

Summary:
Australia's South West offers some of the most diverse travel experiences in Western Australia, ranging from towering forests and whale watching to fine food and wine and world class surfing. Approximately four hours south of the state capital Perth, Margaret River is the popular centre of this fascinating region famous for its world-class wineries, top surfing and fun family holidays.


Keywords:
margaret, river, western, australia, tour, travel, holiday, vacation


Article Body:
Australia's South West offers some of the most diverse travel experiences in Western Australia, ranging from towering forests and whale watching to fine food and wine and world class surfing. Approximately four hours south of the state capital Perth, Margaret River is the popular centre of this fascinating region famous for its world-class wineries, top surfing and fun family holidays.

 The Margaret River Wine Region is famous for its abundance of mouth-watering fresh produce and wines. Whether you enjoy full-bodied wines, fruity olive oil, premium cheeses or delicious hand-made chocolates, Margaret River is a gourmet food lovers’ paradise. Visitors can indulge in a rich smorgasbord of culinary delights at a host of world-class wineries and restaurants dotted throughout the region. The Margaret River Wine Region includes the area between Cape Naturaliste and Cape Leeuwin and east to Busselton, covering a cluster of towns each with their own distinctive traits.

Margaret River is also famous for its world class waves, and has more than 40 locations offering excellent surfing in conditions ranging from powerful reef breaks to gentler beach breaks. Margaret River's surf is among the most consistent in the world, and the region is also among the scenic and laid back surfing destinations in the world. Swells are consistent at Margaret River due to the thousands of kilometres of uninterrupted Indian Ocean seas between Africa and Australia. The massive surf along the Margaret River coastline has made the town a surfing mecca, and host to a world-class surfing competition, the Salomon Masters.

The seaside town of Busselton is home to the longest wooden jetty in the southern hemisphere, and provides excellent fishing. The jetty has been described as Australia's greatest artificial reef and is home to an astonishing array of vividly coloured sealife including corals, sponges, fish and invertebrates. Busselton's calm waters are a playground for all manner of aquatic activity, including water-skiing snorkelling and scuba diving. The Busselton underwater observatory allows visitors to view one of Australia’s most fascinating artificial reefs without getting wet.

The south-west is a paradise for scuba divers. Divers can explore the HMAS Swan wreck, which is also visible to snorkellers from above the ocean surface. In Busselton, the Jetty and Underwater Observatory provide amazing views of the colourful world beneath the water. In Albany more fascinating diving experiences are available including the HMAS Perth wreck. Albany is famous for its whaling history, now preserved in a seaside whaling museum. Whale watching boat trips operate along the Southern Ocean coast up to Augusta on the Indian Ocean coast.

Dunsborough is located on the coast of Geographe Bay, and is home to sheltered beaches and beautiful forests criss-crossed by scenic walking trails. It is also home to a renowned diving location, the HMAS Swan wreck. Augusta is the most south-western point of Western Australia, where the Southern Ocean meets the Indian Ocean. Whales can be easily spotted off the coast from the historic Cape Leeuwin Lighthouse at Augusta from June to December.


