Title: 
The Gold Coast, Queensland Australia. The Holiday Capital.

Word Count:
553

Summary:
Beautiful long stretching sandy beaches, endless days of sunshine, freindly people and so much to see and do - that's a holiday on the Gold Coast of Queensland Australia.


Keywords:
australia, queensland, beach


Article Body:
The Gold Coast features 40km of sandy immaculate beaches and is located 70kms south of Queensland's capital city, Brisbane, and 947kms North the capital of New south Wales, Sydney. It has an estimated population of 480,000 and is Australia's sixth largest city.

It is also Australia's favorite tourist destination with a favorable climate, diversity of attractions, sophisticated nightlife and dining, safe environment and world class resorts. Inland from the Gold Coast is three magnificent National Parks - Springbrook, Lamington and Tamborine which feature beautiful rainforests, picnic areas, nature walks and spectacular lookouts.

Climate:
The Gold Coast has a comfortable sub-tropical climate averaging in 
the 20's and is enjoyable all year round.
Summer - December to February - 20-28 degrees C.
Autumn - March - May - 15-25 degrees C.
Winter - June - August - 11-21 degrees C.
Spring - September to November - 15-25 degrees C.

Attractions:
Four theme parks provide hours and hours if not days of entertainment value with something for everyone. The four theme parks are Movie World, Wet 'n' Wild, Sea World and Dreamworld located between Southport and Coomera. Dreamworld is also the home of Big Brother in Australia. New theme parks are also underway.

Adventure attractions are endless and include motor bike tours, parasailing, sky diving, hot air ballooning, jet skiing, power boating, helicopter tours, go karting and motor racing.

Deep dea fishing charters are popular as well as whale and dolphin watching tours. Other marine activities include diving and snorkelling.

When you get tired of lazy days on the beach a short drive takes you to the  Hinterland region you can roam through World Heritage listed subtropical rainforests with spectacular views, ancient Antarctic beech forests, thundering waterfalls and amazing geological formations to name a few of the highlights.

The Hinterland is also popular for it's growing wine and vineyard industry.

The Gold Coast is also home to over 20 of Australia's leading golf resorts with picturesque backdrops and meticulously manicured greens.

Nightlife:
The Gold Coast is popular for it's famous nightclubs located on Cavill Avenue and Orchid Avenue where you can party to the early hours. There are also two world class nightclubs located in Broadbeach as well as a large casino and convention centre. Taverns and Surf Clubs are also popular.

Dining:
There are over 500 restuarants on the Coast! Main Beach and Broadbeach are popular for their main streets lined with quality restuarants serving for all tastes in ambient relaxing surroundings.

Accommodation:
The Gold Coast there are over 13,000 rooms available from Coolangatta through to Hope Island including Motels, Guest Houses, Apartments and Hotels. Resorts are first class and the big names include the Palazzo Versace, Marriot, Sheraton Mirage, Holiday Inn, Hyatt, Conrad Jupiters and the Sofitel. Most of these are centrally located in Surfers Paradise, Broadbeach and Main Beach with most having water and or Hinterland views.

Transport:
You can fly to either Gold Coast Airport (30mins from Surfers) or Brisbane Airport (50mins from Surfers) and transport from there can either be via taxi, rental, bus or limousine. Buses run on a regular time table throughout the area and a train runs from Robina to Brisbane.

Major Events:
The Indy championship is one of the major events on the calender as well as the Sanctuary Cove Boat Show, the Magic Millions Horse Racing Carnival, Schoolies Festival and Surf Carnivals.

With all that why not consider the Gold Coast for your next holiday!


