Title: 
The Costas of Andalucia

Word Count:
612

Summary:
A brief description on the coastal regions of Andalucia


Keywords:
Andalucia, holiday, vacation, rentals, villas, Costa del Sol


Article Body:
Costa del Sol

The Costa del Sol is the coastline of the area of Andalucia in southern Spain. The Costa del Sol and its varied coastline runs from Gibraltar to the holiday resort of Nerja. It is a very popular destination and has many resorts from the luxury of Marbella and its marina, Puerto Banus full of expensive yachts and motor boats to the more family orientated holiday destinations such as Estepona and Rincon de la Victoria. It is also the preferred choice of many looking for spanish golfing holidays, as over 30 of Europe's best golf courses can be found a short distance inland.

There is a huge choice of vacation accommodation here from Costa del Sol holiday rentals run by private owners to large resort hotels.

For those looking for a more traditional Spanish holiday, the beautiful 'white villages' (pueblos blancos) can also be found not far from the coast with their holiday accommodation comprising of rustic fincas, traditional villages houses to Spanish Cortijos set within olive groves. Places such as Competa, Mijas and Casares and the slightly larger towns of Gaucin, Ronda and Jimena de la Frontera.

Costa de la Luz

The Costa de la Luz, known as the Coast of Light is situated at Spain's most southern point. It is an unspoilt stretch of coastline with many lovely beaches and has not yet become a part of the mass tourism found in other areas such as the Costa Blanca and Costa del Sol.

Tarifa is on the southern edge of the Costa de la Luz and is very popular for windsurfing. Jerez de la Frontera is further up the coast and is home to the famous names of Gonzalez Byass and Pedro Domecq for their sherry production. It is also well known for its equestrian school, the Real Escuela Andaluza de Arte Ecuestre.

A popular day trip from this area is to Seville, the fourth largest city in Spain. It has a mix of architecture and many sights worth visiting such as the Cathedral and La Giralda, the Cathedral's bell tower which was first built in 1198 and improved upon in 1568. From here there are wonderful views over the city.

Costa Tropical

The Costa Tropical is situated between the Costa de Almeria and and the Costa del Sol. The climate has an average temperature of 20 degrees and approximately 320 days of sunshine a year enabling the area to develop a large fruit industry, with many exotic fruits. The oldest town and one of the most popular resorts is Almunecar. The old town has a Moorish castle and a museum. There are several very good beaches and the resort has very good facilities. From Almunecar it is approximately only 75km from the historic city of Granada with its Alhambra Palace

The resorts of Salobrena and Motril are also to be found on the Costa Tropical. Salobrena has a restored Arab castle with a backdrop of traditional white houses and has wonderful views of the Sierra Nevada.

Costa de Almeria

The Costa de Almeria has a varied and unspoilt coastline. The town of Mojacar has lovely beaches as well as a traditional 'white village' which holidaymakers are always keen to visit. Roquetas del Mar is a popular tourist resort and further south is the developing town of Almerimar which has wide, sandy beaches, water sports and is becoming well known for its golf course.

Almeria, a Moorish city, has the 10th century Alcazaba castle, which overlooks the old part of the town, and is well worth a visit.

There is an airport at Almeria with flights from the UK. This provides quicker travelling time to your holiday accommodation on the Costa de Almeria.


