Title: 
There's more to Malaga than just an airport

Word Count:
423

Summary:
Although Malaga is one of Europe's most populsr airports, Malaga itself is being seen more now as tourist location.


Keywords:
Malaga, costa blanca, spanish holiday, easycar, beach holiday, tourist resort, spanish resort


Article Body:
Malaga is famed as one of Europe’s top locations for the more discerning tourist. With much to offer the golfer, yachtsman or shopper, Malaga is renowned as a high class sunshine spot. Although the attractions of Malaga are ample and virtuous, there is little in the Spanish resort to occupy the more inquisitive mind.

The city of Malaga offers plenty to while away the hours over the course of a weekend or short break. But venturing further into Southern Andalucia can be a rewarding experience for the free spirited traveller. Andalucia is a heady mix of Spanish and Moorish architecture – the moors having occupied the region until the mid-fifteenth century. The illustrious past of the region is exemplified just a short drive from Malaga where La Alcazba, an archaeological museum housed in a Moorish fortress provides a fascinating commentary on the hidden depths of Malaga and the surrounding area ( http://www.andalucia.com ). 

Indeed Southern Andalucia offers one of the most interesting and varied self drive routes in Spain. Leaving Malaga and heading West along provides a rewarding insight into the many faces of Spain. Driving along the coast, the landscape varies as the tourist savvy Costa del Sol gives way to the more unspoilt Costa de la Luz. 

Heading East into Granada and the magnificent city that gives the region its’ name is a must on a self drive tour of southern Spain. Although relatively unspoilt by tourist activity Granada is dominated by the impressive Alhambra, and offers meandering, narrow streets – a further legacy of the regions Moorish influence. 

For a more cosmopolitan experience, the capital city of Andalucia, Seville, lies to the north. Although the drive from Malaga is not particularly rewarding, Spain’s fourth largest city offers the grandeur expected of a major European city. The city is characterised again by Moorish architecture, but is dominated by one of the largest cathedrals in Europe and the impressive Mudejar Palace of Alcazar. 

Car hire is readily available and relatively affordable in Malaga ( http://www.easycar.com/aspx/car-hire/location/Malaga.aspx/EN ). Driving in Southern Spain has no real pitfalls, although the mountainous roads of Granada and the twisting coastal roads of the Costa de la Luz must be taken with some additional care. 

After the excitement of the Andalucian adventure, it can be nice to relax and unwind back in Malaga, taking in a round of golf, a stroll around the harbour or visiting one of the many attractions afforded to the city’s most famous son, Pablo Picasso.


