Title: 
Things For Families To Do In Hawaii

Word Count:
565

Summary:
There are six islands that make up Hawaii; Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Lanai, Maui and Hawaii’s Big Island. On each of these islands there are many activities and adventures for you and your family to experience.

Kauai – 

Kauai is one of the best islands to visit if you are traveling to Hawaii with kids. On the island of Kauai, children are welcomed and celebrated because the tradition and culture of Kauai centers around ohana or family. 

Some things that you and your fami...


Keywords:
hawaii,travel,vacation,holiday


Article Body:
There are six islands that make up Hawaii; Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Lanai, Maui and Hawaii’s Big Island. On each of these islands there are many activities and adventures for you and your family to experience.

Kauai – 

Kauai is one of the best islands to visit if you are traveling to Hawaii with kids. On the island of Kauai, children are welcomed and celebrated because the tradition and culture of Kauai centers around ohana or family. 

Some things that you and your family can do together on the island of Kauai are:

Crafts and cultural activities usually offered at the resorts of Kauai. 
Fishing 
Beach games 
Nature walks 
Surfing lessons 
Sand sculpture contests 
Coconut frond weaving 
Tide pool exploring 
Tours 

The island of Kauai also has two great museums for children. The Kauai Children’s Discovery Museum in Kapaa which has many interactive exhibits that adults will enjoy too and the Starlight Planetarium which tells how the Polynesian voyagers used the stars, winds and ocean to navigate their canoes over the Pacific. This program takes place on Saturdays. 

Oahu – 

Oahu also has some great family adventures available. 

Submarine rides that take you by sunken ships, airliners and reef structures. 
Home to Hawaiian Waters Adventure Park 
Sea Life Park where you can meet dolphins, sea turtles, stingrays, sharks and moray eels. 
Honolulu Zoo 
Waikiki Aquarium 

4,000-acre Kualoa Ranch where you can explore by horse, ATV, helicopter, Jet Ski or kayak. 
The resorts of Oahu also offer many family fun activities including lei making, kite making and lauhala weaving.

Molokai – 

The island of Molokai has a unique landscape to offer families. Molokai is perfect for the family that loves to explore the open wilderness, explore tide pools and trek across untouched beaches. You can even rope cattle at the real island ranch that makes its home on Molokai. 

Molokai is also perfect for budding astrologers as its cloudless nights allow you to see the constellations perfectly!

Lanai – 

Lanai is the least crowded of all the islands which makes it attractive to families for safety. There are still a lot of things for families to do on the island of Lanai.

Explore the entire 141-square mile island on foot or by 4X4. 
Watch the dolphins and humpback whales that play off-shore 
Make a lei 
Learn to hula dance. 

Maui – 

Although Maui is the most popular island for honeymooners there are many things for families to do as well. 

Explore a bamboo forest and look for rare tropical 
Hiking 
Volcano exploring 
Glass-bottom boat rides 
The Maui Ocean center has a 750,000 gallon open-ocean tank and walk-through glass tube 
The resorts of Maui also offer many activities for their younger guests. 

Hawaii’s Big Island – 

This is the largest of Hawaii’s islands and it also has the largest family. Family embraces family and there are many interesting things for families to do together on the Big Island of Hawaii.

Explore the Kona coast which boasts desert like lava plains 
Home to the rainiest city in America – Hilo 
Explore the world’s tallest mountain, Mauna Kea which is 13,796 ft. above sea level. 
Visit the rainforest 
See black lava rock
 
The big island also offers camping for those families that love the outdoors so much they want to sleep there too!

Whatever your family enjoys doing, you will be able to find it on one, or a few, of the Hawaiian Islands.


