Title: 
Top 3 Unique Vacation Destinations

Word Count:
410

Summary:
Its that time of year again, time to plan a family vacation.  If gas prices haven’t put the squeeze on you, a car trip to a local "off beat" vacation destination may be just the vacation that you and your family are seeking.


Keywords:
vacations, trips, travel


Article Body:
Going for a lesser known destination can be better than following the heard in many ways.  First off, food, lodging, and entertainment generally gets priced much higher in popular destinations.  You will likely notice a cost savings by visiting a the off beat venues.  Plus, if you are wary of large crowds, you will breathe a sigh of relief and maybe get to enjoy your vacation.

With that in mind, here are a few Unique Vacation Destinations...

Berkeley Springs, West Virginia

For a touch of nature steeped in history, Berkeley Springs in West Virginia just might be for you.  Berkeley Springs is an historic spa and art-filled town in the stunning mountains of the Eastern West Virginian Panhandle.  You will find warm mineral springs, world class dining, many unique and unusual shops, five full-service spas and vast choices in lodging from elegant B&B's and historic inns, rental cabins and resorts.  

You will enjoy golf, hiking and swimming.  Year round, there are festivals of art, music and more.  The entire area is deep in Civil war history and its just a short drive to visit the battle fields in close by Antietam Maryland.

Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin

Billed the "Waterpark Capital of the world", Wisconsin Dells is sure to delight anyone looking for a bit of sun and fun.  You wont run out of things to do with shopping malls, spa villas and, of course, water rides.  

You will notice the dome over the resorts outdoor Great Wave Pool and Dueling Mammoths family racing tube rides. This dome, when complete will be a unique a Foil Tec structure, the first of its kind in the United States, that lets through sunlight so plants can grow and guests can tan.

Moab, Utah

In the mood for some adventure?  Moab, Utah may be the perfect place to visit.  Definitely a place of extremes, with thousand foot canyons and snow capped peaks of 12,000 foot mountains. Outdoor enthusiasts will enjoy  variety of activities and places to visit.

If you plan to visit Moab, you will enjoy hiking, biking, rock climbing, rafting, kayaking, four wheel adventures, and some of the most spectacular sight seeing in the country. 

Nothing here sound appealing or feasible for you?  Don’t hesitate to ask friends, research online, and pick up some ideas at your local state welcome center (you know, those hubs off the highways).  You will get a wealth of ideas for some very interesting and uniquely memorable vacations.


