Title: 
Top 5 Mexico Travel Destinations

Word Count:
496

Summary:
Mexico travel is one of those things that a good many people only dream about.  Long thought to be one of the most beautiful places on the planet, Mexico is a shining star among those that travel the world.


Keywords:
mexico, mexico travel


Article Body:
Mexico travel is one of those things that a good many people only dream about.  Long thought to be one of the most beautiful places on the planet, Mexico is a shining star among those that travel the world.  There is little that can be more exotic than Mexico travel and all that comes with it.  The night is alive with fun and excitement in Mexico and the days are full of sun and fun with the many destinations that are available to those that wish to take part in some Mexico travel.  Who could want for more when they see the overall excitement of the country that is Mexico and all that you can do in a short period of time.

Acapulco is one of the best places when it comes to Mexico travel.  Long thought to be the destination of the many lovers of the world, it is actually the number one spot for honeymoons in the entire world.  There are a good many places that offer exciting package deals to Acapulco that include rooms, airfare and some of the best in entertainment.  Little bad can be said about this romantic paradise on Earth.

Cabo San Lucas makes one think of the days of old.  A largely untouched land, this area of Mexico travel is so exciting that one can not imagine.  Making the finest in overall destinations is not an easy thing to do but this site has come through in fine style.  The rates are well below the average and the natives make it all the more enjoyable.  The scuba diving is exciting as there are many wrecks nearby to be explored and the fishing is great at certain times of the year.  Space is very limited so you will need to book well in advance.

Cancun is one of those places that once rested without visitors and now makes up for that with the good many tourists that flock here every year.  A major player in the tourism industry, Cancun has been plagued by some big business in the recent years and it has lost a bit of its old world charm.  This has done nothing to dissuade the thousands that come here every year.  Be careful to plan for the hurricane season though, there is little that can be done when one strikes.

Cozumel is a place that many people have ignored over the years and that is good news for those that travel there.  Big companies have not found this site to be very hospitable and that means that it is mainly natives that run the sites and attractions.  There is a good many places where you can have lots of fun for very little.

Guadalajara brings to mind some of the old ruins of the past.  There is many historical attractions here and the natives will be sure to please all that come in.  The prices are very reasonable and the food is great all over the area.


