Title: 
Top accolade for Haven's Wild Duck Holiday Park

Word Count:
413

Summary:
Haven and British Holidays' Wild Duck Holiday Park has been named among the best in the country by Britain's leading holiday review website.


Keywords:
Haven's Wild Duck Holiday Park


Article Body:
Haven and British Holidays' Wild Duck Holiday Park has been named among the best in the country by Britain's leading holiday review website. 

The caravan and camping park, set in 90 acres of pine, alder and silver birch woodlands at Belton, near Great Yarmouth, was came second in a survey to find the best holiday park. 

The popular website, which attracts more than 40,000 "hits" a week, features holidaymakers' reviews of their holidays which can vary from being highly favorable to very critical. 

Wild Duck – which last year won a special excellence award after achieving the coveted David Bellamy Gold Conservation Award status for five consecutive years -- was named first runner-up behind another Haven holiday park Littlesea at Weymouth on the Dorset coast. 

In the latest review of Wild Duck, a holidaymaker who enjoyed a break there last October gives it 10/10, and says the park "was A1, very clean, friendly staff, beautiful setting and excellent value for money. The caravan was top class and very clean. I would recommend Wild Duck to anyone. 

"We saw lots of wild animals in the woods and round our caravan. Overall excellent time!" 

Wild Duck is one of four holiday parks in the Great Yarmouth area operated by Britain's leading family holiday company Haven and British Holidays. 

Together Wild Duck, Caister Holiday Park, Hopton and Seashore attract more than 10,000 holidaymakers and caravan owners a week during the peak season. They are also major local employers with a total complement of almost 600 Team Members in the summer. 

Haven is committed to regular investment in its parks and over the closed winter period parks have benefitted from many upgrades and improvements in facilities including the addition of outside patio areas with awnings, heating and lighting near the main entertainment venues in advance of the smoking ban which comes into effect this summer. 

Second runner-up in the survey was Center Parcs Oasis, Whine fell Forest, Cumbria. 

Commenting on the first holiday park awards, Chris Brown, Managing Director said: 'These awards are not given out lightly and are a valuable accolade for a holiday park to achieve. It is a great thing for the consumer as they can now know where the best holiday parks are at a click of a button and be as sure as possible of having a great holiday. 

'It is especially relevant to the consumer as the awards are given based on their customers' comments and evaluate the park's service, cleanliness, value for money and quality of staff.'


