Title: 
Top Holiday Destinations

Word Count:
496

Summary:
Read about few top holiday destinations, how to get there at the low cost cheap flights from London and Birmingham airports. Learn about what makes those cities famous as they are.


Keywords:
cheap flights to new york city, flights to toronto, cheap flights to singapore, flights to chicago, cheao flights to delhi, flights to mumabi, cheap flights to kolkata, flights to amritsar


Article Body:
Cheap Flights To New York City

One of the most populous city of United Stated, New York has a population of 22 million which makes it largest urban region of the world. It is popularly known as the "Big Apple" or "Gotham". The city is a focus for large numbers of tourist from all over the United States who come for its culture, energy, cosmopolitanism, and economic opportunity. Check out some cheap flights to New York City from London Heathrow and Birmingham airports in UK. There are many providers but the cheapest is Air India. Some online travel agents in UK offers New York flights at low cost airline – Air India with some additional discount offer like £10 off etc.

Cheap Flights To Singapore

Singapore has evolved from a developing nation to first world status in very little time. It is one of the hottest destinations for holidays and breaks. In seasons it becomes difficult to get cheap flights to Singapore, the flights being full with advance bookings. Singapore is both an island and a country, but perhaps is best described as a city-state, offering civilization and order in the highest degree. The city has a combined western and eastern culture influence and that is something that makes it more lively and homely for every kind. You can get cheap flights to Singapore with UK based online travel agents. They also offer discounts.

Cheap Flights To Chicago

Chicago has a list of nicknames but the most popular one is the “Windy City”. The city is the third most populous city of US. Chicago has been known for the skyscrapers. Today, many high-rise buildings are located in the downtown area, notably in the Loop and along the lakefront and the Chicago River. After New York and Los Angeles, Chicago is the third largest media market in US. Chicago is the home to 15 pro athletic teams and is one of three U.S. cities that have two Major League Baseball teams. You can look for cheap flights to Chicago at http://www.myairindia.co.uk they claim to offer low cost flights and additional discounts of £10 at every online booking.

Cheap Flights To Toronto

Toronto is one of the world's most multicultural and ethnically diverse cities. It is Canada's financial centre and economic engine, as well as one of the country's most important cultural, artistic, and health sciences centres. Considered among the best places in Canada for tourism as well as business purposes. This makes the city crowded most of the times with tourists. Toronto is a city of many museums, theatres, events and sports. There are many cultures, which bring along their traditions and music. It is also home to the Canadian National Exhibition one of Canada's largest outdoor fairs. Get access to cheap flights to Toronto from London Heathrow and Birmingham airports in UK with Air India, a low cost luxurious airline. You can also book online with UK based travel agents and get some additional discount offers.


