Title: 
Top Seven Things to do in Cabo San Lucas

Word Count:
977

Summary:
Cabo San Lucas is becoming a sought after vacation destination, and that's a fact. It's popularity is steadily increasing. Cabo San Lucas offers something for every vacationer, including: private secluded getaways, beachfront weddings, nightlife and activities.


Keywords:
cabo san lucas, travel destination, vacation destination


Article Body:
Cabo San Lucas is becoming a sought after vacation destination, and that's a fact. It's popularity is steadily increasing. Cabo San Lucas offers something for every vacationer, including: private secluded getaways, beachfront weddings, nightlife and activities. In this article I am going to discuss the top seven things to do in Cabo San Lucas and San Jose Del Cabo. If you are planning a vacation to Cabo, the activities listed below are all a must do!

<b>Diving in Sea of Cortez</b>
Cabo San Lucas is a unique diving destination because the Sea of Cortez is located between temperate waters and tropical waters. The Sea of Cortes is one of the world's unique ocean environments. It is considered to be the biologically richest body of water on earth, supporting over 800 marine vertebrates species.  Diving in Cabo is famous for it's "sand falls". The sand falls are actually streams of sand that fall over the underwater canyons. They create sand rivers and this is extremely interesting to see. The nutrient rich waters make for a spectacular population of fish from small inshore fish to large schools of jack, tuna, dolphin, and "sportfish" such as dorado and marlin. There are migratory visits from whales and hammerhead sharks. A fortunate scuba diver may also encounter manta rays, and even whale sharks in the plentiful waters of the Sea of Cortez. It is critical to the success of your dive to plan your dive at the right time. The Sea of Cortez sees good weather conditions June through November. Prior to June, the Sea of Cortez waters temperature is quite cold. If you are not interested in diving you could also snorkel. There are diving and snorkeling tours available. Snorkeling would still allow you to see most of the inshore fish and some of the beautiful coral.

<b>Horseback riding on the beach</b>
Horseback riding for is available for all levels of riders at several stables in the Cabo San Lucas area. There are trail rides in which you are accompanied by a guide. Trail rides can vary from a desert ride, to a beach ride or, in and about beautiful rock formations. Either way it is a great way to see much of Cabo San Lucas' scenery. Horseback riding is also available for the whole family, with younger children riding with adults. For those of you who are horse lovers you can see  pure Andulsian horses at:Cuadra San Francisco Stable.

<b>Whale Watching</b>
Whales pass several hundred meters off of Cabo San Lucas' shore every year. The best  time to see whales are between January and March, when the gray whale migrates. There are several ways to whale watch in Cabo San Lucas. There are boat tours that offer whale watching. Boats of varying size carry the hundreds of whale watchers out to see these marine mammals as they visit our peninsula in their annual migration, every year. It is not uncommon at this time for a curious whale to come close to a boat. Although no trip can guarantee whales, the odds are definitely in your favor. The smaller the boat the better your chances are of getting close.

<b>Have a drink at Cabo San Lucas' most famous club</b>
The Cabo Wabo cantina is Cabo's most famous club, owned by Sammy Hagar. If you are in town at the same time as Sammy is, you might even get to watch one of his impromptu performances. If you are not that lucky, you can still enjoy the atmosphere the Cabo Wabo has to offer and live music on most nights. The Cabo Wabo also offers a menu filled with American and Mexican food to feed your hunger.

<b>Hike through the desert</b>
You must be especially careful when hiking in Cabo's desert lands. You will need twice as much water as you normally would. A trek through the desert is absolutely spectacular. Desert hiking is best in the winter, with the temperature being around 70. It is possible to hike the desert in the summer but, you must go in the early morning. It is dangerous to hike alone, and best to hire an experienced guide from the area, just incase you get lost. The desert offers incredible rock formations, unique vegetation and wildlife native only to this region. Hiking can be for all ages and hiking in Cabo's desert is something that you will remember. There are also other  hiking and natural history tours which include fossil fields, challenging hikes into the Sierra de la Laguna and day trips to old mining ghost towns.

<b>Bird Sanctuary</b>
Close to downtown San Jose Del Cabo is the San Jose Estuary and Bird Sanctuary. In the sanctuary you can find about 200 species of exotic birds which include egrets, herons and brown pelicans. You can rent a kayak to experience this sanctuary. Sunrise and sunset are the most scenic times to visit; however, if you are an avid bird watcher and want to see species and identify them, you may want to visit during daylight hours. There is a also an information center to answer any of your questions. Admission is free at the San Jose Estuary and Bird Sanctuary.

<b>Visit Lover's beach.</b>
Lover's Beach ( also known as Playa Del Amor) is another must, but to get to this beach you'll need some kind of boat or kayak as the beach is not accessible by land. It is possible to hire a water taxi at the marina. Lover's Beach is surrounded by towering rock formations and is hidden behind Cabo San Lucas' landmark arch,  El Arco at Land's End. Be careful swimming here, the powerful waves and currents of the Pacific make swimming quite dangerous. You can view where the Pacfic and the Sea of Cortez meet. Lover's beach offers many spectacular views.


