Title: 
Towns of southern Costa Blanca

Word Count:
829

Summary:
A brief travel guide to the towns of the southern Costa Blanca, Spain.


Keywords:
Costa Blanca, Murica, Valencia, Spain, rentals, towns, holiday, vacation, Mediterranean, golf


Article Body:
Alicante

Usually most people don't see Alicante other than from the window of the aircraft as they arrive at the international airport or from the window of their hire car, which they picked up from Alicante airport car hire terminal.  However, spend a little more time and you will notice that Alicante has much more to offer than just a place of arrival and departure.

The capital of the Costa Blanca, Alicante, can date its history back to the Romans and there is evidence of pre-historic history dating back to a settlement here even further.  Initial impressions are poor as you make your way from the airport to the town, however once past the urban sprawl, you'll find a palm lined promenade along the front of the town by the harbour with its nightlife and associated restaurants and a tree lined shopping avenue.  To the south of the town, the coastline stretches away for miles of golden sandy beach.

Torrevieja

Torrevieja is one of the most popular destinations on the southern Costa Blanca. Only 40 minutes drive from the airport of Alicante to the north, or 20 minutes from the smaller airport at Murcia, which is also served from the UK, Torrevieja is a bustling tourist community.  There has been a settlement here for thousands of years, the reason becomes clear after a visit as Torrevieja is situated by 2 large saltwater lagoons where they still harvest the salt just as they have done for centuries.  The lagoons are also the home to flamingos as well as many other types of birds.

Torrevieja town is classically Spanish in design, with most inhabitants living in apartment blocks in ordered streets.  A walk through the town highlights that it is a busy commercial centre servicing both the large number of tourists and the local Spanish and expat communities.  The town, has a busy fishing port and marina and trips can be taken from here along the coast during the summer months.

The main beach promenade was recently refurbished and provides a pleasant stroll, or the ideal place to sit and take in the views while sipping a coffee at one of the many beachfront cafes.  Most days there is a small market selling souvenirs near to the beach and harbour and on Fridays each week, a large open air market selling all sorts of goods.  The market can get very busy and parking near impossible, so an early start is the order of the day.

There are many beaches to choose from, and a water park for the more adventurous.

Golfers are probably best equipped along this stretch of coastline with lots to choose from, through the golf courses of Villamartin, Las Ramblas, Campoamor and Quesada which are the more well known.  Torrevieja holiday accommodation is both plentiful and varied, from luxury villas on the golf courses or beachfront, to townhouses and apartments on urbanisations.  There is something for every budget.

Villamartin

Villamartin is probably the best known golf course on the Costa Blanca.  The resort has expanded and now includes the golf courses of Las Ramblas and Campoamor, so there is more than enough for the most avid golfer.  A Villamartin golf holiday visitor, can divide their time between the golf course and the beach, of which there are many within a 5 minute drive and most are Blue Flag approved.  A favourite has to be the beach at Cabo Roig overlooked by its watch tower, now a speciality fish restaurant.

The resort comprises of a commercial centre with bars, restaurants, outdoor eating and a selection of shops.  Around the centre there are plenty of Villamartin golf apartments, for rental from private owners.  If your budget stretches a little more, there are many holiday urbanisations within a few minutes drive of the golf course, with either apartments or townhouses and most have communal pools and other facilities.  Top of the range gives you luxury villas built overlooking the golf fairways, with their private pools and excellent location, these are the premier places to stay while you enjoy your vacation here.

La Manga

La Manga del Mar Menor is a resort town near Murcia.  The area has several golf courses and over 40km of beaches.  

The Mar Menor (Little Sea) is an enclosed salt water lake and the area is part of the Costa Calida.  It is an ideal resort for water sports enthusiasts or for those wishing to learn because of the calm waters of the Mar Menor.

There is a coastal strip of hotels and houses which runs along the side of the Mar Menor as well as many restaurants, bars and holiday apartments.  Two nearby coastal towns are San Pedro del Pinatar and San Javier and Murcia and Cartagena are also worth including on your holiday itinerary as well as the old fishing village of Los Alcazares.  The famous La Manga Club is also to be found close by and is well known for hosting many football clubs during the winter months.


