Title: 
Travel to Austria – Your Year-Round Travel Destination

Word Count:
537

Summary:
So you want to travel to Austria. Well, you've made a wise choice. Austria is considered one of the top year-round travel destinations. Because of its beautiful Alps, winter sports are quite popular in Austria, providing Austria with high tourist attendance in the winter and giving you a reason to travel to Austria any time of the year.


Keywords:
discount airfare to Austria, discount airfare to Europe, Austria, cheap airfare, wholesale trave


Article Body:
So you want to travel to Austria. Well, you've made a wise choice. Austria is considered one of the top year-round travel destinations. Because of its beautiful Alps, winter sports are quite popular in Austria, providing Austria with high tourist attendance in the winter and giving you a reason to travel to Austria any time of the year.

If you want to travel to Austria, here are some quick facts you should know when you go.

Austria – The Region
A land-locked country, Austria is located in Central Europe. It is a mountainous country with an area of 83,855 km2. Austria consists of nine provinces: Vorarlberg, Tyrol, Salzburg, Carinthia, Styria, Upper Austria, Lower Austria, Burgenland, and Vienna. Approximately 99% of Austrians are of Germanic ethnic origin and 78% are Roman Catholics. As for the terrain, the Alps occupy the southern and western regions of the country, and numerous forests, valleys, lakes, and rivers can be found throughout Austria.

The Weather
When you travel to Austria, it's important to have an idea about the weather and Austria's seasons. Austria has four distinct seasons: spring, summer, autumn and winter. Summers are generally warm and pleasant with cool nights. Rain does occur during the summer season but the showers are normally short. Austria's winters are sunny, with reliable and frequent snowfalls. Winters are also cold and accompanied by warm and dry winds in some parts. However the weather overall is changeable throughout the year, so when you travel to Austria, pack appropriately.

The Culture
When you travel to Austria, you'll quickly realize why Austria is widely recognized for its rich cultural past and present. Austria's affluence of artistic achievements is obvious in its architecture and structures like the Stephansdom (Saint Stephen`s Cathedral), Schönbrunn Palace, Hofburg Palace, the "Goldene Dachl" in Innsbruck, Melk Abbey, and the "Loos-Haus" or the "Hundertwasser-Haus". Austria is also the birthplace of composers Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven, Franz Schubert, Johann Strauss Jr., Johann Strauss Sr., and Johannes Brahms. Like most European countries, Austria has a rich culture and affluence that awaits anyone who decides to visit.

The Activities
If you pre-plan your activities for your trip to Austria, here's a heads up. Because of Austria's mountainous terrain, two of the more popular activities for tourists tend to be skiing in the winter and hiking. There are a number of different resorts to fulfill your skiing desires. If you prefer flat terrain to hills, cross-country skiing opportunities are also available anywhere where there's sufficient snow and few buildings. As for hiking, there are thousands of kilometers of hiking trails that will allow you to explore the Alps and its breathtaking views. If you're looking for things to do when you travel Austria, skiing in the winter and hiking are two very popular and exciting Austrian activities for tourists.

Austria has a lot to offer travelers and those who want to travel Austria. From its rich culture to mountain activities, Austria is the answer to those who want to travel in Europe year-round.

For more information on travel to Austria and other regions in Europe, and <a href="http://www.cfares.com/austria/">discount airfare to Austria</a>, visit <a href="http://www.cfares.com">www.cfares.com</a>.


