Title: 
Travel in Spain - Free guide of Mallorca

Word Count:
530

Summary:
Mallorca is renown for its open and friendly international people, art museums and Art Galleries, the sea, the movida and cheap lodgings, classic itineraries and a lot more to make a visit worth wise.


Keywords:
mallorca,spain,free,guide,flashbooking,bed,and,breakfast,hotel,cheap,hostel,budget


Article Body:
Those who love travelling light, those with a sense for adventure, those who love flexibility in their trips, those who like meeting locals and travelling slow and low... those are Flashbooking happy travellers!

Majorca, Spain's largest island, is located in the Mediterranean Sea and part of the Balearic Islands archipelago.

Flashbooking chose to provide backpackers, students and families with a list of budget selected and independent accommodations worldwide, mostly run by locals,  in order to promote an alternative tourism respectful of cultures and different societies.

Like the other Balearic Islands, Ibiza, Formentera, and Minorca, the island is a popular tourist destination. 

For this and other reasons Flashbooking is becoming a recognized source of information and services for who loves creating a trip by him/herself and book bed nights securely online.

In Germany and the United Kingdom, where package tourism to the island started in May 1952, Majorca has remained a popular destination. Flashbooking cheap lodging solutions are all available for online bookings and divided by Countries. Travellers have free access to the updated list of Europe hostels and budget hotels, North and South America hostels, Caribbean and Central America hostels as well as for Asia cheap accommodations, Oceania youth hostels and Africa hostels.

Since the 1960s, it has also become a synonym for mass tourism. Flashbooking's happy travellers can book their rooms and beds not only in cheap hotels or cheap hostel Mallorca but also consider other budget accommodations in Bed and Breakfast, Guesthouses, Campsites, apartments, farm houses and much more.

The name derives from Latin insula maior, "larger island"; later Maiorica. Flashbooking accommodation database is easily available online and comes completed with all relevant information about youth hostel and hotel location and map, description, services, hostel contacts, customer ratings, six pictures and updated prices inclusive of taxes and services together with instant real availability.

The capital of the island, Palma, is also the capital of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands. Having the reservation final price is also convenient as it does give the transparency our users pretend while booking. Having the final total amount of your booking means you do not have to worry about other extra surprises!

The Cabrera archipelago is administratively grouped with Majorca. The national anthem of Majorca is La Balanguera. 

In general, Flashbooking guides have been written for giving the essential information about the most visited cities in the world and in particular for any traveller or first-time visitor. For a short visit, a week-end, a city break, these free pocket guides are useful printable and downloadable tools available online.

In the Mallorca guide students, families and backpackers can get a large selection of cheap or low cost accommodation with plenty of low cost solutions in budget youth hostels, Bed and Breakfast, guesthouses, cheap hotel deals.

So mates, we are looking forward to finding you THE budget accommodation that meets your needs and pocket for your next trip! Last but not least, if you wish to help us, you can either give your personal ratings of some accommodations, lodgings, bed and breakfast Mallorca, youth hostels and budget small hotels where you stayed, or enlarging the hostel offer by reporting some new hostel contacts!


