Title: 
Travel Asia

Word Count:
513

Summary:
Traveling Asia is something that everyone should experience at least once in their lifetime.  When you travel to Asia, there are so many things to see and do; make sure that you plan your trip in advance.  However, remember to leave some free time in you itinerary, because when you travel Asia, you want to make sure that you have the flexibility for an occasional adventure.


Keywords:
travel asia


Article Body:
Traveling Asia is something that everyone should experience at least once in their lifetime.  When you travel to Asia, there are so many things to see and do; make sure that you plan your trip in advance.  However, remember to leave some free time in you itinerary, because when you travel Asia, you want to make sure that you have the flexibility for an occasional adventure.

As the largest continent on earth, Asia offers travelers a huge variety of places to visit, things to do and, cultures to see.  For first time visitors who travel Asia, we recommend the following:

Island Nations-
Indonesia:
One of the most diverse destinations for travelers to Asia, the Indonesian archipelago can provide enough exciting destinations for a complete trip. Whether you are seeking relaxation, natural beauty, cultural diversity or all of the above, Indonesia will show you an exciting and wonderful Asian travel destination.

Philippines:
Comprised of over 7000 islands, the Philippines has become on of Asia’s forgotten travel destinations.  Due to a recent history that includes martial law and economic corruption, the Philippines has lost much of its previous tourist activity to its more stable neighbors.  Those who do visit will enjoy beautiful spots like the Boracay beaches and Lake Sebu.

Japan:
For decades, the island nation of Japan has been a favorite destination for travelers to Asia.  From amazing Zen temples to kitschy reproductions of western monuments like the Eiffel Tower, Japan has something for every traveler who visits.  The hardest thing is fitting it all in.

Southeast Asia
Thailand:
The Kingdom of Thailand is the most popular tourist destination in Southeast Asia drawing more visitors than its neighbors.  With both mountainous regions and a beautiful coastline dotted with amazing islands Thailand is one a must see for those who travel to Asia.  The city of Bangkok, the largest in Thailand is one of the most popular in all of Asia, as well.

Vietnam:
A quickly emerging destination among travelers to Asia, Vietnam is reshaping its image among world travel destinations.  From the beaches along the coast, to its soaring inland mountains, Vietnam offers travelers to Asia with a sublime experience.

Mainland Asia-
China:
Too vast for words alone, China is rapidly emerging as the top destination for travelers to Asia.  As China continues to modernize both economically and socially, it is becoming easier for those who travel to Asia to visit one of the largest and most populous countries in the world.  If you travel to China, follow a loose itinerary and try to see as much as you can.

Korea:
South Korea is one of the most westernized of all Asian nations.  Travelers to Korea can enjoy the modernity of the capital city, Seoul; or they can try visiting beautiful natural wonders like Songnisan National Park.

India:
Another of Asia’s largest and most heavily populated countries, India is a complex and diverse nation unlike any other you will experience when you travel throughout Asia.  Visitors to India will be enchanted by its unpredictability and surprising cultural dramas that exist among its inhabitants.


