Title: 
Travelling to London.

Word Count:
350

Summary:
London is a year-round tourist centre. The advantage of going there in autumn and winter is the absence of crowds of sometimes too noisy and energetic tourists.


Keywords:
hotels


Article Body:
London is a year-round tourist centre. The advantage of going there in autumn and winter is the absence of crowds of sometimes too noisy and energetic tourists. London is one of world centres of everything – trade, fashion and finance. London is one of the favorite European travel destinations because it has a lot to offer. Best clubs, restaurants, shops and, of course, historic sights – all this attracts millions of visitors a year. The most famous attractions are Big Ben, Tower, Tower Bridge, St Paul's Cathedral and the historically rich Westminster Abbey. The city also boasts some of the world's greatest museums and art galleries. London is an ancient city whose history greets you at every turn. London is a museum itself.  London is the capital of both the United Kingdom and of England, and is the largest European city. It’s situated on the River Thames and has an official population of 8 million people, although the figure of over 14 million is more correct. In November in London take place some interesting events. For example,  Language Show – showcasing many of the different ways to learn - from evening classes and language schools to distance learning, self study courses, tapes, CDs and software. At the end of the month the 7th Disability Film Festival will take place at the NFT on London's South Bank. This fully accessible festival screening of the work of disabled film-makers and artists, serves both to promote the talent of disabled film-makers and to broaden cinema experiences for deaf and disabled film viewers. The festival also aims to provide educative opportunities for the non-disabled public, film-goers and the UK industry. There are workshops and debates attached to the screenings. Mental Health Today London is the national annual exhibition and seminar programme for everyone with an interest in mental health – whether you work in or use mental health services. It takes place on 2 November.  From 11 November till 20 November – those are the days of music because London Jazz Festival comes to the city. The impressive program includes jazz giants McCoy Tyner, Charles Lloyd, and the World Saxophone Quartet.


