Title: 
Travel To China And See What All The Fuss Is About

Word Count:
495

Summary:
China is one of the most glorious countries to visit and this year you can see it all. China is a magical country full of old and historical sights and many wonders. There is no other country that has sights as fantastic as the Great Wall of China and all of the old places where the monks used to live thousands of years ago. Add to all of this beauty the supreme glory that is the scenery and you have a place that dreams are made of.

China is the type of place that you thin...


Keywords:
china,vacation,air travel,holidays,cheap airline tickets


Article Body:
China is one of the most glorious countries to visit and this year you can see it all. China is a magical country full of old and historical sights and many wonders. There is no other country that has sights as fantastic as the Great Wall of China and all of the old places where the monks used to live thousands of years ago. Add to all of this beauty the supreme glory that is the scenery and you have a place that dreams are made of.

China is the type of place that you think only exists in real until you see it for yourself. When you step out onto one of the many mountain peaks and look down on the mist and the world below you will find that your breath is completely taken away. It is stunning and if you do not take cameras and camcorders and tons of extra batteries you are going to be sorry for it. You need to capture these sights on camera so that you can always remember and share those memories with those who were not lucky enough to come with you on this magnificent trip.

Here are some of the top places for you to visit when you go to China:

Hong Kong
This is of course a must see place. Everyone has herd of this great place but so many do not get the wonderful opportunity to see it for themselves. When you go to China you need to see Hong Kong for yourself. There you will get to spend some quality time soaking up the atmosphere. You can see the day life and the nightlife there, it is so different than it is in western countries. You will also find that Hong Kong has the best shopping world wide. No other city on earth can offer this kind of shopping and everyone will be able to find something that they can love and enjoy for years to come.

Guangzhou
This is a place that so many people have not thought to even travel to and oh how these people have missed out. This is one of the top destinations, or at least it should be. When you visit Guangzhou you need to start in one area and move from there. Checking out Guangzhou place by place is the most efficient way to do it. Make sure to not leave until you see Colonial Canton for yourself.

Dongguan
Dongguan is full of all the top museums that China has to offer. If you love to see museums and all that the history of this great country then this is the place to go to do it. In just a couple of days you can learn so much and experience even more. 

China is a fabulous place to visit no matter how young or how old you happen to be. Both adults and children will be able to enjoy all of the wonders of China.


