Title: 
Travel to Romantic Asian Locations

Word Count:
404

Summary:
Asia is one the more visually stunning areas in the world. If you are looking for romance, here are some top-notch destinations.


Keywords:
asia, romance, bora bora, cheju island, korea, china, thialand, banyan tree, japan, tahiti, suzhou


Article Body:
Asia is one the more visually stunning areas in the world. If you are looking for romance, here are some top-notch destinations.

Asia is hot and sticky, much like romance. More importantly, it tends to be fairly cheap due to a currency disaster in the late 1990s. Although luxury resorts can be very pricey, you can find a romantic location for just about any budget. 

If cost is of no concern, the Banyan Tree Resorts should definitely be on the top of your list. With resorts in Thailand, Indonesia, China, Japan, Maldives and Seychelles, the Banyan Tree resorts are the lap of romantic luxury. Each resort is a bit different and prices vary wildly depending on location since the currency in Japan is much stronger than the Thai currency.

Cheju Island off of Korea is a little known, but spectacular romantic destination. Cheju is very similar in appearance to the Hawaiian Islands, complete with a dead volcano. Spring is by far the best time to visit Cheju, but keep in mind Korean honeymooners are in plentiful supply. As to budget, you can get rooms at luxury resorts or camp on the Island. Every level of comfort between these extremes is also available. 

China is a huge country with a lot to see. If you’re looking for a rustic, romantic travel destination in China, the place to go is Suzhou. Imagine Venice, Italy being plopped down in China and you have Suzhou. The city is rife with canals and roughly fifty percent of it is underwater. Once considered the capital of the Silk Road out of China, the city is over 25,000 years old. Perched on the edge of a lake, it is simply spectacular and undoubtedly one of the most romantic areas in Asia. 

If all else fails, you can never go wrong with Bora Bora in Tahiti. Comprised of volcanic mounts much like Hawaii, Bora Bora is known as the romantic island of Tahiti. The name is appropriate. The island is all about pristine white beaches, crystal clear water and friendly people. One can hike up the old volcano to get an incredible view in the morning and head out to the reefs for a little diving in the afternoon.  Lodging can be a bit pricey on Bora Bora, but it is definitely worth it. 

You can’t go wrong with any of the above destinations if your looking for romance in asia.


