Title: 
Travels Through Cyprus

Word Count:
308

Summary:
The old goat herder stands before his flock. Stick in hand, he bears the look of experience. His beaten old hat keeps the sun off his unshaven face.

His weathered trousers have seen better days and wear a belt, crudely tied around his waist. His braces are actually two of the elastic straps you use to tie your luggage to the car's roof rack.

As the sun beats down on the plains of Agia Marina he herds his goats to pastures new and another day of contentment.

When your...


Keywords:



Article Body:
The old goat herder stands before his flock. Stick in hand, he bears the look of experience. His beaten old hat keeps the sun off his unshaven face.

His weathered trousers have seen better days and wear a belt, crudely tied around his waist. His braces are actually two of the elastic straps you use to tie your luggage to the car's roof rack.

As the sun beats down on the plains of Agia Marina he herds his goats to pastures new and another day of contentment.

When your country has suffered 9000 years of constant invasion, any break in hostilities is greeted with appreciation.

Cyprus is a blend of many influences. Turkish, Greek, Muslim and Christian invaders have all set foot upon this hallowed land and made their mark.

Mosques and Christian churches stand side by side as a reminder of the often turbulent and violent past of Cyprus.

But when free of the shackles of conflict, Cyprus is a place of beauty and discovery. The Byzantine churches amongst the Troodos Mountains are an essential experience.

The sense of history and culture is overwhelming as you journey through mountain passes and wonder at the ancient architecture.

For a genuine sense of solitude try cycling through the barren land of the Karpas Peninsula or hiking the well-trodden trails of Mount Olympus.

The blue crystal waters of Cape Greco provide a wealth of opportunity for swimming and diving.

When the sun goes down, the Cypriot nightlife will have you dancing into the early hours. Youngsters tend to make their way towards the large contingent of British pubs in Agia Napa.

The more cultured make their way to the traditional Cypriot cafes and bars. Here you can drink raki, the local firewater made from distilled grapes.

If you're peckish, try the baked lamb dish of kleftiko, or another local favourite mezedes.


