Title: 
Travel Argentina And See The Marvel Of The South

Word Count:
551

Summary:
If you love Hollywood, you surely would associate Argentina with Madonna’s portrayal in Evita. If you know your history and geography, you would recognize Argentina as the passageway from the Atlantic to the Pacific. And if you like to travel, you would recognize Argentina as one of the more favored tourism spots in South America.

Argentina has a total area of 3.761-million squire km and 99% of which is land. After Brazil, Argentina is the second largest land mass in South...


Keywords:
argentina travel


Article Body:
If you love Hollywood, you surely would associate Argentina with Madonna’s portrayal in Evita. If you know your history and geography, you would recognize Argentina as the passageway from the Atlantic to the Pacific. And if you like to travel, you would recognize Argentina as one of the more favored tourism spots in South America.

Argentina has a total area of 3.761-million squire km and 99% of which is land. After Brazil, Argentina is the second largest land mass in South America and 8th in the world. Its bordering nations are Chile in the east, Bolivia and Paraguay in the north, and Brazil and Uraguay in the west. The Atlantic Ocean is in the eastern and southern part of the country.

With its size and location, Argentina is home to several tourist attractions that would boldly define the uniqueness of the country. 

The Iguazu Falls, part of the Iguazu National Park in the province of Misiones, Litoral showcases the beauty of water and the spectacle of nature. The falls produce 70-meter plummet and is taller and twice as wide as the Niagara Falls. The horseshoe-shaped falls is the result of a volcanic eruption. Surely your travel in Argentina is not complete without paying a visit to Iguazu Falls.

Also in Misiones is the San Ignacio Jesuitic Ruins. This religious community founded by the Jesuits aimed to bring the Christianity to the locals. He 17th century ruins will show how the community has survived and has lived in during its time. 

The Teatro Colon in Buenos Aires is Argentina’s pride and one of few structures that has gained the country its reputation and rights to be called as the “Paris of South America.” The opera house is finished in 1907 with a touch of French, Italian Renaissance and Classical Greek. If no show is presented, visitors can see tour the opera house’s interiors. 

Also in Buenos Aires is the La Boca, a fancy and colorful neighborhood located near the Rio Riachuelo. “The Mouth” when translated in English is filled with street performers, tango dancers, and tourists taking pictures everywhere. 

Meanwhile, a trip in Cafe Tortoni, one of the oldest café where Carlos Gardel, the tango legend and Jorges Luis Borges, the writer spend their precious moments. The 1858 Café Tortoni is the focal point of Buenos Aires’ social life. 

Cementerio de la Recoleta is Buenos Aires is the place to go on you Argentina travel if you want to see where Evita Péron lies- wife of the former president Juan Péron with a movie named after her and dedicated for her. Her final resting place is directed within Recoleta neighbourhood, a sophisticated mausoleums where other rich and famous Argentine lies. 

Traveling in Argentina would introduce you to tango. And there is no better place to witness the local dance than in San Telmo. The place is once a lonely place for Spanish immigrants. This is where they sang and dance. Men dance with prostitutes. Soon, some respectable women joined in. And as time and people passed by, the dance soon became one of the most recognized in the world: tango. Today, San Telmo still resembles the old Spain with cobbled stone streets and historical buildings but most of all, San Telmo is a unique place where tango is most applaud.


