Title: 
Travel Tips For Your Vacation Rental Trip to Bulgaria

Word Count:
818

Summary:
When you are ready for that once in a lifetime experience of an Bulgarian vacation, consider a private home rental for your source of lodging.  Hotels can be nice, but staying in a private home rented for the occasion can give you a chance to see the real Bulgaria.  Explore the countryside, walk into the village and visit with the residents, and see what it feels like to actually go home, to a cabin or villa at the end of the day, living as the Bulgarians do.


Keywords:
Bulgaria,vacation rentals,holiday rentals, holiday homes,vacation homes,travel,lodging,condo,condominium,free advertising


Article Body:
Bulgaria offers pleasures for each one's taste. Thinking of an active holiday? Bulgaria has it - swimming, skiing, riding, climbing, hunting, fishing... Thinking of relaxing - amazing nature, sunny beaches, healing spas, monasteries and churches, hospitable towns and villages... Ancient culture, endless beaches and an emerald sea, high mountains with marvellous gorges and caves, clear lakes and rivers full of fish, wide valleys, healing springs, ancient culture, hospitable people, tempting cuisine and wines, diverse flora and fauna... 

All accommodation places in Bulgaria have been categorised according to the 5-star international system. Privatisation has had a favourable impact and today the country is proud of hotels and restaurants that meet the modern world standard. 

When you are ready for that once in a lifetime experience of an Bulgarian vacation, consider a private home rental for your source of lodging.  Hotels can be nice, but staying in a private home rented for the occasion can give you a chance to see the real Bulgaria.  Explore the countryside, walk into the village and visit with the residents, and see what it feels like to actually go home, to a cabin or villa at the end of the day, living as the Bulgarians do. Or, try a beach house if that suits you or an apartment if you prefer a more urban setting.  Getting to know the local people by living among them for an extended stay of a few weeks will give you a chance to learn some of the language, or if you already speak Bulgarian to brush up on your skills. It will also give you a chance to learn local history in a very unique way, from the people themselves. You will appreciate all of the similarities of Bulgarian culture with your own, and learn to appreciate the differences as well. The Bulgarians are a wonderful, friendly people with a rich culture and history. Taking the time to live among them, getting to know them as friends and neighbors, is truly an experience you will always remember. 

Private homes for rent to vacationers in Bulgaria can be found in various price ranges.  If you are looking for luxury, there are villas available.  If something more rustic suits your taste and budget, then smaller homes and even old farmhouses are available to appeal to all tastes.  Just as an example, one property includes two bedrooms, queen size beds, kitchen, laundry area, bathroom, central eat and the satellite television, telephone and VCR that most tourists are used to having. Imagine though the coziness and comfort of coming back to the house after a day of sight seeing to sit by the fire place, drinking a glass of a local wine, having a light dinner of pasta, and enjoying the peace and quiet of your surroundings.  Staying in a hotel in a major city will certainly show you the tourist hot spots, but staying in a private home will show you the real Bulgaria. 

There are so many wonderful places to visit in Bulgaria like:
- Nessebar - beautiful small town on Bulgaria's Black Sea coast a few hours south of Varna. Another one of Bulgaria's many UNESCO world heritage sites. 
- Sozopol - together with Nessebar these are the two sea towns with traditional houses and ancient dig sites. 
- Bansko - a beautiful old village in the Pirin mountains with refurbished homes, stone wall, and cobblestone streets, but increasingly overtaken by resort hotels. Good place for skiing in winter and hiking in summer. The birthplace of the Bulgarian revival movement. If you want a true mountain village experience, there are a few other villages nearby from which to choose. In the beginning of august an annual Jazz festival is being held in the town. Skiiers and Snowboarders could find BanskoSki useful. 

No visa is required for entry for citizens of the US, Canada, UK, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand.

However, foreigners have to register at the police after 72 hours. If you have booked with a travel agency, this will be taken care of. If not - usually, your hotel will handle the necessary paperwork (ask). If you do not stay in a hotel, you will need to go to the police and take the tedious task of registering on your own. Especially for UK and US citizens, Bulgaria is really cracking down on this. Failure to register might mean a 2000 Leva fine (about $1200 US). Also take care that you have an entry stamp in your passport, otherwise your exit could be quite troublesome. 

Bulgaria offers tourist attractions all around the year. Most popular are summer seaside resorts, along the entire Black Sea coastline. In winter numerous ski resorts are there to attract tourists. There are many spa, trekking and historical destinations that offer incredibly rich variety of experiences. 

There are hundreds, maybe thousands of mineral water springs around the country, so this is something you'd better taste and drink. Ayrian and boza are two traditional Balkan non-alcoholic beverages.


