Title: 
Travel in Turkey, Free guide of Bodrum for families

Word Count:
521

Summary:
A growing youth hostels and hotels in Krakow directory specializing in budget accommodation in Polen.


Keywords:
bodrum,travel,pocket,Guide,of,Flashbooking,hostel,hotel


Article Body:
Flashbooking is a recognized source of information and services for independent travellers who love creating their trips and book their bed nights securely online.

Bodrum is a Turkish port in Mula Province. 

Bodrum is renown for its open and friendly international people, art museums and Art Galleries, the sea, the movida and cheap lodgings, classic itineraries and a lot more to make a visit worth wise. Bodrum is also a major centre of local and international tourism, attracting seven million visitors per year.

It is on the Bodrum Peninsula, near the northwest entrance to the Gulf of Gökova, and faces the Greek island of Kos.

Flashbooking provides backpackers, students and families with a list of budget selected and independent accommodations worldwide -mostly run by locals- in order to promote an alternative tourism respectful of cultures and different societies. 

Today, it is a center of tourism and yachting. It is the ancient Halicarnassus of Caria, renowned for the mausoleum of Maussollos.

Flashbooking accommodation database is easily available online and comes completed with all relevant information about hostel location, description, contacts, prices, instant real availability, customer ratings, facilities and pictures.

The town is very popular tourist resort for northern Europeans due to its attractive coastline and active night-life.

In particular Flashbooking provides a large selection of cheap accommodation offers in Bodrum where there are plenty of low cost solutions for backpackers in budget Bed and Breakfast, cheap hotels and guesthouses.

It can safely be said that every year at least a few hundreds of thousands of tourists visit Bodrum.

As an online booker service Flashboking guarantees instantly confirmed and secure reservations thanks to a secure server, certified SSL provided by Thawte (the global certificate authority).

The current population is 32,227 (2000 census). 

Recently put at travellers’ disposal is another useful tool: the Free Pocket City Guide of Bodrum.

In the town there is also a football team called Bodrumspor founded in 1931.

This free travel guide of Bodrum contains, in just 9 printable pages, all the essential information and very good suggestions about the Turkey.

In general, Flashbooking guides have been written for giving the essential information about the most visited cities in the world and in particular for any traveller or first-time visitor. For a short visit, a week-end, a city break, these free pocket guides are useful printable and downloadable tools available online.

In Flashbooking website there is also a section dedicated to the world cities events where you can also get a quite exhaustive list of main festivals, exhibitions, concerts and cool things to do and see in other top European cities.

The customer service is always available to suggest you the perfect accommodation for your trip. A Skype account has been recently added in order to give more assistance to our travellers and backpackers needs. In just a sentence here the flashbooking motto:

Those who love travelling light, those with a sense for adventure, those who love flexibility in their trip, those who like meeting locals and travelling slow and low... THOSE ARE OUR TRAVELLERS!

So mates, we are looking forward to finding the best accommodation for you on your next trip!


