Title: 
Traveling to Las Vegas - Let the Excitement Begin

Word Count:
690

Summary:
Las Vegas is one of the most stimulating cities in the world and there is something to do that appeals to each and every one of us.  Whether you’re into gambling or night clubs, or prefer golf outings or sightseeing, you can do it on a grand scale in Vegas.


Keywords:
las vegas,vegas,flights,airfare,travel,vacation,shows,entertainment,wedding,hotels,airline,tickets


Article Body:
Las Vegas is one of the most stimulating cities in the world and there is something to do that appeals to each and every one of us.  Whether you’re into gambling or night clubs, or prefer golf outings or sightseeing, you can do it on a grand scale in Vegas.

It doesn’t matter if it’s your first or fifth visit, there’s nothing more exhilarating than making that initial decent through the Rocky Mountains.  Looking out the window of your airplane, you’ll see the spectacular Las Vegas valley with its countless number of homes, many of which border right up against the mountains.  As you continue your decent, the homes, swimming pools and roads grow closer and closer.  You’re now only minutes away from an experience of a lifetime!

Just before touching down, you’ll be able to catch your first glimpse of the famous Las Vegas strip.  On the far end of the strip you can’t help but see the tallest freestanding observation tower in the United States (the Stratosphere) and on the other end, right across from the airport, is an impressive 43 story gold tower which is home to the luxurious Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino.

After you’ve landed and picked up your luggage, it’s only natural that the first thing you’ll want to do is take a trip through the heart of the city.  Whether it’s a car, shuttle or limo, your first drive down the strip will leave an ever lasting impression.  Can you imagine seeing a scaled down version of the New York City skyline (including the Statue of Liberty and Brooklyn Bridge) on one corner, and right across the street, a sparkling white castle complete with moat and drawbridge?  These mammoth themed hotels are found all along the strip.

Most of us go to Las Vegas for entertainment.  It is, of course, the “Entertainment Capitol of the World.”  Since Las Vegas was originally created as a gambling oasis, if you enjoy the slots or playing the tables, there is plenty to go around.  If gambling isn’t your forte, there’s an abundance of other activities that can fill your time.  If you enjoy golf, for example, you can visit one of the many championship courses in the area.

Las Vegas is also blessed with beautiful, natural surroundings.  Hoover Dam, Lake Mead, Red Rock Canyon, the Grand Canyon and Death Valley aren’t very far away.  Many of these attractions can also be visited in one day.  If you prefer not to drive to these destinations, you can choose from a variety of guided tours that are available.  Many of the tour companies will even pick you up from your hotel.

When you return from your day long journey, you’ll be ready to satisfy your hefty appetite.  For this, you can can eat at one of the over 50 buffets in the area.  Or, if you want to treat yourself to a gourmet meal, try one of the many upscale restaurants with well-knows chefs such as Emeril Laggesse, Wolfgang Puck and Bobby Flay.

Don’t forget that Las Vegas is also known as a city that never sleeps and has an extraordinary night life.  You can visit one of the over 40 night clubs in town and be treated as a VIP as soon as you walk through the doors.  You can dance the night away at Studio 54 in the MGM Grande or stop by the popular VooDoo Lounge at the Rio.  The night life in Vegas is non-stop.

There are so many things to do and see that it’s impossible to experience it all in one, two or even three trips.  Lets face it, we haven’t even talked about all the shopping or shows!  Because Las Vegas is continuously growing and changing its landscape, there’s always something new and exciting happening.

If you haven’t already, you should try and visit Las Vegas at least once in your lifetime.  After you’ve been there and experienced what Las Vegas has to offer, you’ll be wanting to go back again soon.


