Title: 
Travel Guide For Scotland

Word Count:
382

Summary:
This article gives advice about places to visit, places to stay and places to eat in Scotland. Scotland is a superb country to visit and it is steeped in history. With famous cities such as Edinburgh and Glasgow, Scotland has plenty to offer for everyone.


Keywords:
Scotland, Japanese, hotel, places, trip, visit, guide, castle, Edinburgh, Glasgow, loch ness, eat


Article Body:
This article gives advice about places to visit, places to stay and places to eat in Scotland. Scotland is a superb country to visit and it is steeped in history. With famous cities such as Edinburgh and Glasgow, Scotland has plenty to offer for everyone.

Places to visit in Scotland

Edinburgh castle has been a focal point of the Edinburgh skyline for over eight hundred years.

It includes the Scottish National War Museum which lists all of Scotland's war dead since 1914.

Adult admission to the castle is currently £8 and for children it is only £2.

Loch Ness and the Great Glen is a must. I am sure you have all heard of the loch ness monster, see if you can see him when you visit here. Many people have stated that they could!

The Glasgow science centre is the most recent major museum opened in Glasgow. This is a most impressive place which caters for all age groups. I have only ever heard positive comments from people who have visited this museum.

The National Gallery of Scotland has a wide range of paintings including works from Rembrandt, Gainsborough and Ramsay. Entrance is free apart from for special exhibitions.

Places to stay in Scotland

Edinburgh

Balmoral is probably one of the best hotels in Edinburgh and is situated on Princes Street. It is also one of the most expensive hotels however.

Albany is a Georgian style hotel and is situated on Albany Street.

The Bonham is a contemporary style hotel with a European style restaurant and is situated in Drumsheugh Gardens.

Ingrams is more of a hotel/bed and breakfast. It is situated on Northumberland Street.

Glasgow

Glasgow Hilton is a top of the range hotel and is very modern. It is situated on William Street.

St Jude's is a small hotel situated on Bath Street.

Langs has a special feature being a Japanese influenced Oshi spa.

Places to eat in Scotland

Inverlochy Castle has three dining rooms and has won many awards. If you can afford it, this is the one you want to visit.

Other places to eat:

Culloden House

Summer Isles Hotel

Eden Court

Seagreen

I hope this short guide is of use during your trip to Scotland. The above suggestions are only a few of many wonderful places to go.


