Title: 
Traveling in South Africa: Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban

Word Count:
592

Summary:
South Africa has amazing wildlife, natural landscapes and lively cities for the tourist to explore. After troubled times, South Africa is moving forward and is a pleasure to visit.


Keywords:
South-Africa, Hotels, Accommodation, Cheap, Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban


Article Body:
Johannesburg
Jo'burg, as it's known, is the largest city in South Africa, its busy bustling streets lack real beauty. But you'll be rewarded with wonderful experiences of the real South Africa and the climate is glorious.

Transport: how to get there and around
There is an international airport in Johannesburg which serves domestic as well as international destinations. There is also a bus service that connects with nearby countries.

Weather
The climate in South Africa has great regional variations. Generally hot though it depends on altitude. Summer tends to be very hot in the low lands; upper lands are pleasantly warm but subject to rain and mist. Winters are mild all over the country except at the highest altitudes which are subject to frosts and occasional snowfalls. 

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of hotels in Johannesburg .

Attractions & Events
*To experience the rich cultures of South Africa that were oppressed for so long, be in Johannesburg throughout September and October for the Arts Alive Festival.

*In April the National Exhibition Centre holds the Rand Easter Show.

*September brings the Jazz Festival and also the Gay Pride march is on the last Saturday of the month. 
Cape Town
Cape Town is relaxed and laid back, especially in comparison to Johannesburg. The stunning Table Mountain overlooks the city of beautiful landscapes and beaches. It's a welcoming place, too, with a vibrant cultural life especially for music.

Transport: how to get there and around
Cape Town International airport has many direct flights from around the world. The city has a main train station where you can board both trains and buses. For help getting around town, ‘Rikki’ transporters, Taxis and buses are available. 

Weather
The best time to visit is during the summer months December to March. It can be around 26 C in the city but this is cooled off a by the Cape Doctor – also known as the wind!

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of hotels in Cape Town .

Attractions & Events
*The Cape Town Arts Festival is an outdoor event during the summer month of January. 

*The Good Food and Wine Festival is held in June.

*There are a few events taking place in December. In the Company’s Garden you can experience Carols by Candlelight. A more flamboyant event with outrageous costumes is the Cape Town Queer Event. 

Durban
Durban is a modern city with a lively night scene and plenty to keep you entertained from taverns, discos, theatres and clubs. The proud Zulu culture can be felt throughout Durban which boasts tropical beaches and jungle. 

Transport: how to get there and around
International and domestic flights are served by Durban International Airport. You can reach the main South African cities with by train such as Cape Town and Johannesburg. Rickshaws, Taxi’s and minibuses will get you around the city itself. 

Weather
Overall the climate is fairly mild all year round. During May and October there is more chance of rain and the winters bring an evening chill.

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of hotels in Durban.

Attractions & Events
*Durban has a literature festival in March at the University of KwaZulu-Natal.

*Natal holds a Marathon in June which goes through the valley of a thousand hills. 

*The Centre for Creative Arts holds the International Film Festival in June.


