Title: 
Travel to Boston: Not Your Grandmother’s Tea Party

Word Count:
526

Summary:
Boston has traditionally stood as the beacon of New England thought, culture and historical direction, and consequently has been the major force behind the independent progress of the United States of America.


Keywords:
travel to Boston, Boston travel info, discount airfare, travel information


Article Body:
Boston has traditionally stood as the beacon of New England thought, culture and historical direction, and consequently has been the major force behind the independent progress of the United States of America. Boston’s well preserved colonial architecture gracing the tree lined streets or the original oak seats of Fenway Park baseball stadium add insurmountable character to the historically indispensable city. With a nickname like “the Hub of the Universe,” given by Oliver Wendell Holmes, it is impossible to justify not visiting Boston to discover the inspiring source of this pseudonym!

The Cradle of More than Liberty
Boston spearheaded the fight for freedom and independence from Britain during the Revolutionary War through both thought and action. The Old South Meeting House in the city center is where colonists gathered in 1773 before disguising themselves as Native Americans and dumping British tea into the harbor to protest taxation without representation. The Meeting House is open today for tours, concerts and historical reenactments. The site of the Boston Massacre and the Battle of Bunker Hill are also nearby. While in the city center, stop by the Paul Revere House, which is notable both for being the oldest building in Boston, built in 1680, and for being the home of the legendary patriot who warned colonists of British military action.

Further strengthening its earned title as the ‘Cradle of Liberty,’ Bostonians were firm supporters of abolition and the Underground Railroad. Boston has long remained on the progressive edge of education and social reform, boasting a plethora of elite universities and academies that include Harvard and MIT among their ranks. For an all around journey through time, travel to Boston and take the 2.5 mile Freedom Trail, which starts in the excellent shopping area of Boston Common and continues through the city past 16 historical sites, terminating at the USS Constitution.

Up to Speed
Not only a key player in American heritage, Boston is a continually updating metropolis that helps shape the evolving modern identity of the United States. Newbury Street is Boston’s ultra-chic shopping area that will bedazzle you with specialty shops, designer boutiques and private galleries. The Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum is a stunning collection of classic works housed in a breathtaking Venetian-style palace situated about a four-story oasis-like courtyard. As Boston is the Kennedy Family hometown, the beautiful marble John F. Kennedy Museum and Library was opened here in 1979 and is considered to be one of the city’s shining architectural highlights. Boston is also known for its large immigrant population. Feast on the spoils of multiculturalism and head to the North End of Boston for an authentic Italian meal, and don’t forget to order the cannoli for desert!

A trip to Boston is fundamental to understanding the foundations upon which the United States of America was built. America’s pastimes and ideals are firmly entrenched in the people’s history of Boston and its independent and free-thinking spirit that still permeates the city’s culture today. Also, when you travel to Boston, make sure to get out and explore the beautiful countryside of Massachusetts. Even nearby Boston Harbor Islands National Park has 34 islands accessible for hiking and biking.


