Title: 
Travel to Eastern Europe: See Life Bursting at the Seams

Word Count:
410

Summary:
Eastern Europe today is an understated treasure-trove of sites, sounds and history. The exuberance for life in the post-Communist era has found expression in a proliferation of music and arts festivals, celebrations of national identity and history, and an eagerly welcoming attitude toward foreigners.


Keywords:
Eastern Europe, travel to Eastern Europe, discount airfare to Eastern Europe, Eastern Europe travel information, cheap tickest, wholesale travel


Article Body:
Eastern Europe today is an understated treasure-trove of sites, sounds and history. The exuberance for life in the post-Communist era has found expression in a proliferation of music and arts festivals, celebrations of national identity and history, and an eagerly welcoming attitude toward foreigners. Travel in Eastern Europe is a rewarding journey for those seeking insight into the most significant moments in recent history. It is also the perfect place to leave your cares behind and immerse yourself in the magical terrain and genuine hospitality of a region slowly opening its doors to the global community.

Travel Through Time in Eastern Europe
Throughout history, Eastern Europe has been continuously molded by the hands of great clashing powers. Travel through this region will reveal monumental reminders of the Holy Roman Empire, the Ottoman Empire's struggle to retain the land, and the once expansive Austro-Hungarian Habsburg rule. Imperial palaces and exquisite national museums adorn the entire region. A journey along the Danube between Budapest and the Black Sea exposes the most heavily utilized route of human migration and invasion into Europe from the Celts and Greeks to the Mongols and Turks. The Danube is also where a fascinating fusion of cultures has occurred. Christianity and Islam met along these banks and the lifestyle of the Orient was introduced to Europeans.

During the 20th century, Eastern Europe was devastated by the Holocaust and World War II. Many of the countries were used as staging grounds for the great powers, which continued through the Cold War era. Today, visitors have the privilege of touring many of these testaments to history, including battle grounds, internment camps and abandoned Soviet bunkers.

Anyone's Adventure
Eastern Europe boasts some of the fastest growing cities and the most energetic nightlife on the European continent. Prague, Vienna and Belgrade are a fascinating blend of unchanging history and Eastern Europe's addiction to hyper-modernism. Additionally, winter ski resorts abound, particularly in the north and near the Balkan Peninsula, and there is no shortage of summer arts festivals; most notable are the film festivals in Vienna and Warsaw.

Travel to Eastern Europe and take part in the progressing celebration of life and nationalism in a way only post-Communist countries know how. Avoid the overwhelming crowds of its western neighbors and discover the sweet satisfying secret of traveling through this historic wonderland! For more information, visit <a href="http://www.cfares.com">www.cfares.com</a>, your source for cheap airfare on the web.


