Title: 
Travel Australia coast to coast: Sydney, Gold Coast, Perth

Word Count:
741

Summary:
To really see Australia, try and make time to see the east coast and the west coast. From the cosmopolitan lifestyle of Sydney to the laid back surf culture of the Gold Coast and the natural beauty of Perth in Western Australia, each state offers its own unique glimpse of this huge island continent.


Keywords:
cheap, hotel, accommodation, cheap hotels, cheap accommodation


Article Body:
To really see Australia, try and make time to see the east coast and the west coast.
From the cosmopolitan lifestyle of Sydney to the laid back surf culture of the Gold Coast and the natural beauty of Perth in Western Australia, each state offers its own unique glimpse of this huge island continent.
Sydney: the city for all seasons
From famous Bondi Beach to the tranquil Blue Mountains, to glittering Sydney Harbour and the thriving city centre, Sydney has it all.
Transport: getting there and getting around:
You can fly direct to Sydney from major international airports. There are 40 airlines servicing Sydney airport including all the major carriers such as Qantas, Virgin and British Airways.
Sydney has a well established rail and bus system which can take you all over the city and out to regional areas and interstate. The road system is modern and easy to navigate and car hire is available at reasonable rates.
Climate: Sydney weather and seasonal variations
Sydney enjoys mild weather all year round. Australian seasons are the opposite of those in the northern hemisphere. It’s the perfect escape from a cold northern hemisphere winter!
Spring is from September to November. Summer is from December to February. Autumn is from March to May. Winter is from June to August. , so it can provide a great escape from a cold winter!
Accommodation: from cheap stays to luxury resorts
Booking accommodation is easy with a huge range available. Check on the internet for the range, location and cost of hotels in Sydney. 
Events: there’s always something on in Sydney
•	Variety Club Annual Road Bash starts from Garden Island on August 5 2007 on its way to the Northern Territory
•	Priscilla the Queen of the Desert - the iconic Australian Musical is on at the Lyric Theatre Star City Darling Harbour
•	Sydney Opera House has started its Winter Season – for details of what is on visit www.sydneyoperahouse.com
•	For the family, El Caballo Blanco is on at the Horseworld Stadium on Saturday and Sunday nights – it is a show with amazingly trained choreographed horses
Gold coast: surf, sand, fun and excitement
If you’re looking for a relaxing getaway with the family or an action-packed adventure with friends, a trip to Australia’s Gold Coast is a must.
It is just 80kms south of the major city of Brisbane which has an international airport with flights from around the world daily. You can also fly direct from other Australian cities on the domestic routes to the Gold Coast airport. Taxis, car hire, trains and buses are readily available.
From the miles of sparking beaches and nearby tropical rainforests to the famous high rise city skyline and the incredible choice of major theme parks – Dreamworld, Movieworld, Steve Irwin’s Australia Zoo, Sea World, Wet ‘n’ Wild and more – the Gold Coast is Australia’s playground. 
Not forgetting the world famous Gold Coast Indy 300, where for 4 days and 4 nights in October the streets around Southport are transformed into a high speed car racing track.
Gold Coast hotels and accommodation are available in a huge array of styles and budgets to suit everyone and the weather is sunny almost 300 days a year with temperature highs above 20°C all year round. See you there!
Perth: Australia at its best
A major city buzzing with attractions surrounded by incredible beaches and outback wilderness, Perth truly is the best of both worlds. It’s on the far western side of Australia and is well worth the trip.
Perth’s International airport is the gateway to the vast West Coast of Australia, encompassing one third of the entire continent. Shuttle buses, hire cars and taxis operate regularly between Perth and Fremantle town centres and the airports. Tour buses are also available to guide you around all the popular sites and attractions. You can choose from a wide range of Perth hotels and accommodation options to match your budget.
Explore the secluded surf beaches running for miles up and down the west coast, relax at over 60 wineries in the Margaret River region just a few hours away, or escape on to the water and spot the Monkey Mia dolphins, go whale watching, snorkel over Ningaloo reef or visit the incredible Pinnacles.
Summer temperatures average between 29°C and 32°C during the day, perfect for a dip or surf, and winter temperatures average 18°C during the day, ideal for a long lunch with the sun on your back.


