Title: 
Travel South America

Word Count:
551

Summary:
From Patagonia in the south to Columbia and Venezuela in the north, South America offers travelers with an entire continent to explore.  Visitors who travel South America can visit tremendous mountains, amazing rain forests and beautiful beaches.  A trip to South America will expose travelers to various languages and cultures from both the new world of Europe to the ancient societies of South America’s indigenous people.


Keywords:
Travel South America


Article Body:
From Patagonia in the south to Columbia and Venezuela in the north, South America offers travelers with an entire continent to explore.  Visitors who travel South America can visit tremendous mountains, amazing rain forests and beautiful beaches.  A trip to South America will expose travelers to various languages and cultures from both the new world of Europe to the ancient societies of South America’s indigenous people. 

South America is almost entirely surrounded by water with the Pacific Ocean on the west coast, the Atlantic Ocean on the east coast and the Caribbean Sea to the North.  As all but two countries in South America have coastal access, travelers to South America will see the influence of the sea in the cities and people who live in them. 

When you travel South America don’t forget to visit the following countries and attractions:

Chile:
A narrow country that runs along the west coast from the southern tip of South America to the midpoint of the continent, Chile offers a tremendous amount of ecological and geographic diversity.  Visitors will marvel at the numerous volcanoes, geysers and glaciers that make Chile an adventure travelers dream in South America.

Argentina:
From Chile’s eastern border to the Atlantic coastline, Argentina occupies the balance of South America’s southern tip with one of the most European-influenced cultures on the Continent.  Don’t let recent economic troubles discourage a visit to Argentina, as falling prices make it one of the most economical countries within South America for travelers to visit. 

Brazil:
South America’s largest individual country Brazil is one stop no traveler should miss.  From the liveliness and excitement of large cities like Sao Paolo and Rio de Janiero to the remote Amazon jungle, Brazil is a unique nation full of social, environmental and economic complexities that must be seen first-hand to appreciate.  Travelers to South America should not miss the Brazilian celebration of Carnivale; one of the most impressive displays of national culture anywhere in the world.

Bolivia:
Even though it is one of the poorer countries in South America, Bolivia offers travelers with amazing Andean landscapes that are the home of mysterious, ancient civilizations.  Visitors will be welcomed by the cultural wealth of Bolivias people.

Peru:
On the Pacific coast, the nation of Peru offers multiple layers of many great civilizations.  Travelers should not miss the city of Lima and the magic of the ruins of the ancient Incan city of Machu Picchu.  

Ecuador:
Ecuador is home to one of the world’s most amazing natural resources: The island of the Galapogos chain are home to the unique plant and animal species that provided Charles Darwin with the observations that led to his theory of evolution.  Today, travelers to South America can visit the Galopagos islands and view the same species that Darwin did.

Venezuela:
Venezuela is home to South America’s largest lake, third largest river, and some of the world’s most amazing waterfalls.  Travelers to Venezuela should ignore its political controversies and visit it for the amazing natural and cultural wonders they can experience.

Columbia:
The Columbia of Hollywood movies is far removed from the snow-capped mountains and white-sand beaches that travelers will experience.  Visit this South American nation, and enjoy all that it has to offer in relative security.


