Title: 
Travel To Kenya – An African Adventure

Word Count:
355

Summary:
Kenya is a part of the vast continent of Africa and yet it can provide you with an experience that is out of Africa. A Kenyan Safari is something that everyone visiting Africa should go for. The beaches of Kenya are untouched and unexplored. There is a vast coastline, which is protected by Coral reefs and hence is devoid of any pollution or sharks. You might be the only people on this beach except for the locals. Hence, it will give you the experience of a remote island. Thes...


Keywords:
kenya travel, kenya, kenya hotels, travel tips, travel guides, vacations, holidays, travelling


Article Body:
Kenya is a part of the vast continent of Africa and yet it can provide you with an experience that is out of Africa. A Kenyan Safari is something that everyone visiting Africa should go for. The beaches of Kenya are untouched and unexplored. There is a vast coastline, which is protected by Coral reefs and hence is devoid of any pollution or sharks. You might be the only people on this beach except for the locals. Hence, it will give you the experience of a remote island. These beaches are surrounded by a vast expanse of wildlife.

Kenya - Unplugged
The famous safaris of Tsavo, Masai Mara and Lake Nakuru are situated in Kenya. Kenya is called the Cradle of Humanity and has unsullied beaches and thriving wildlife. The migration of wild beasts in the Masai Mara has been recorded a million times but you have to see it to believe. You should be sensible when visiting Swahili cities as they can be dangerous.

Tsavo is another place, which has featured in the movies. Famous for its ingenious man-eaters of Tsavo, made famous by the movie starring Val Kilmer, the place is another good tourist attraction. You will keep hearing the word ‘Karibu’, which means welcome in the local dialect. There are various flights connecting Kenya to the rest of the world. Most of them fly straight to Mozambique.

Lake Magadi is the most southerly of the rift valley lakes in Kenya. The place is very remote and hence is scarcely visited by tourists. However, it is an excellent place to visit as the thick encrustation of soda gives it a lunar appearance. This is the most mineral rich of all the soda lakes.

History enthusiasts can head to the Gede ruins hidden in the forests. These ruins consist of a vast colony of houses and mosques, which are engulfed in mystery. There are no records of this place’s existence in the textbooks of history making them even more mysterious. Excavations, which were carried on in this place, have led to the discovery of startling facts about the history and trade of the place.


