Title: 
Travel in Italy: free guide of Verona for families

Word Count:
447

Summary:
Travel in northen Italy, Flashbooking is becoming a recognized source of information and services for who loves creating a trip by him/herself and book bed nights securely online, this issue: Travel in Verona City (Veneto).


Keywords:
cheap,hostel,hotel,bed,and,breakfast,verona,veneto


Article Body:
Verona, or Veronia, was a city of the Euganei, who were obliged to cede it to the Cenomani (550 BC). 

Flashbooking is a growing cheap hostel in Verona and hotels directory specializing in budget accommodation for independent travellers, students, backpackers, families and all the ones that travel on a pocket.

With the conquest of the Valley of the Po the Veronese territory became Roman (about 300 BC). Verona became a Roman colonia in 89 BC, and then a municipium in 49 BC; Verona had the franchise in 59.

Flashbooking is becoming a recognized source of information and services for who loves creating a trip by him/herself and book bed nights securely online. 

Verona is a city and provincial capital in Veneto, Northern Italy. 

Those who love travelling light, those with a sense for adventure, those who love flexibility in their trips, those who like meeting locals and travelling slow and low... those are Flashbooking happy travellers!

The ancient town and the center of the modern city are in a loop of the Adige River near Lake Garda. 

Flashbooking provides a large selection of cheap or low cost reservation offers in Verona where there are plenty of low cost solutions for backpackers in budget youth hostels, bed and breakfast Verona, family run guesthouses, cheap hotel deals.

Because of this position, the areas saw regular floodings until 1956, when the Mori-Torbole tunnel was constructed, providing 500 cubic meters of discharge from the Adige river to the Lake Garda in case of flood danger. 

In general, Flashbooking guides have been written for giving the essential information about the most visited cities in the world and in particular for any traveller or first-time visitor.

The tunnel reduced the risk of floodings from once every seventy years to once every two centuries.

For a short visit, a week-end, a city break, these free pocket guides are useful printable and downloadable tools available online.


Flashbooking cheap lodging solutions are all available for online bookings and divided by Countries. Travellers have free access to the updated list of Europe hostels and budget hotels, North and South America hostels, Caribbean and Central America hostels as well as for Asia cheap accommodations, Oceania youth hostels and Africa hostels.

Flashbooking policy tends to privilege small and family-run hotels in order to promote an alternative tourism respectful of cultures and different societies.


Having the reservation final price is also convenient as it does give the transparency our users pretend while booking. Having the final total amount of your booking means you do not have to worry about other extra surprises!

So mates, we are looking forward to finding you THE budget accommodation in Verona, that meets your needs and pocket for your next trip!


