Title: 
Travel to Australia’s east coast: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane

Word Count:
713

Summary:
If you’re looking to experience Australia, the east coast is home to three of Australia’s major city centres and always full of fun things to see and do. Whether you’re in a large group or a family, looking for budget travel or luxury resort accommodation, there’s options to delight everyone.


Keywords:
cheap, hotel, accommodation, cheap hotels, cheap accommodation


Article Body:
If you’re looking to experience Australia, the east coast is home to three of Australia’s major city centres and always full of fun things to see and do.

Whether you’re in a large group or a family, looking for budget travel or luxury resort accommodation, there’s options to delight everyone.

Sydney: the city for all seasons

From famous Bondi Beach to the tranquil Blue Mountains, to glittering Sydney Harbour and the thriving city centre, Sydney has it all.

Transport: getting there and getting around:

You can fly direct to Sydney from major international airports. There are 40 airlines servicing Sydney airport including all the major carriers such as Qantas, Virgin and British Airways.
Sydney has a well established rail and bus system which can take you all over the city and out to regional areas and interstate. The road system is modern and easy to navigate and car hire is available at reasonable rates.

Climate: Sydney weather and seasonal variations

Sydney enjoys mild weather all year round. Australian seasons are the opposite of those in the northern hemisphere. It’s the perfect escape from a cold northern hemisphere winter!
Spring is from September to November. Summer is from December to February. Autumn is from March to May. Winter is from June to August. , so it can provide a great escape from a cold winter!

Accommodation: from cheap stays to luxury resorts

Booking accommodation is easy with a huge range available. Check on the internet for the range, location and cost of Sydney Hotels.

Events: there’s always something on in Sydney

•	Variety Club Annual Road Bash starts from Garden Island on August 5 2007 on its way to the Northern Territory
•	Priscilla the Queen of the Desert - the iconic Australian Musical is on at the Lyric Theatre Star City Darling Harbour
•	Sydney Opera House has started its Winter Season – for details of what is on visit www.sydneyoperahouse.com
•	For the family, El Caballo Blanco is on at the Horseworld Stadium on Saturday and Sunday nights – it is a show with amazingly trained choreographed horses
•	
Melbourne: shopping, restaurants and entertainment

Melbourne is known as the cultural centre of Australia. It is renowned for its beautiful restaurants, bars, shopping, art galleries, sport, live entertainment, the Melbourne Grand Prix and of course the world famous Melbourne Cup horse racing event – ‘the race that stops a nation’.

You can fly direct to Melbourne’s international airport from major international airports. Bus, taxi and rental cars are all readily available from the airport and the road network is simple to navigate. Melbourne’s trams – the only remaining tram network in Australia – are one of its major attractions and a unique and easy way to get around town.

Accommodation is plentiful with hundreds of Melbourne Hotels catering for all tastes and every budget. Be sure to stop by the Travellers Information Desk located in the International Arrivals terminal to pick up all the information you need to have a great holiday.

Set on the Yarra River, Melbourne is a wonderful place to explore. There are distinct enclaves to tour around whatever your interests are. If you want to go further afield, the Victorian Alps are only a few hours away by car and offer good skiing in winter.

Brisbane: beautiful one day, perfect the next

If you’re looking for superb sub-tropical weather, friendly relaxed people and some of the world’s most beautiful beaches, Brisbane is the place to be any time of the year. It offers long hot summers and wonderfully mild winters.

Brisbane’s international and domestic airports are easily accessible by train, taxi and car and shuttle buses also depart regularly. Situated on the Brisbane River, the city boasts a well resourced ferry system to let you tour the city sites in ease.

Brisbane hotels are available to suit any budget, and accommodation is also plentiful in surrounding areas. The pristine coastline and beaches both north and south of Brisbane are popular holiday destinations with many attractions and islands to explore.

Last but not least, from Brisbane you can visit many of Australia’s biggest theme parks including Dreamworld, Movieworld, Steve Irwin’s Australia Zoo, Sea World, Wet ‘n’ Wild and more. Shuttle buses are a quick and easy way to get there.


