Title: 
Treat Yourself and Travel to France

Word Count:
485

Summary:
No country embodies the grandeur of European travel quite like France. From the international artistic reputation of Cannes to the luxurious leisure of the Riviera, France has demonstrated a remarkable capacity to overcome a tumultuous history by enriching the quality of life with those experiences. The diversity of the country will leave you stimulated, satiated and asking for more when you finally treat yourself and travel France!


Keywords:
discount airfare to France, discount airfare to Europe, France, cheap airfare, wholesale trave


Article Body:
No country embodies the grandeur of European travel quite like France. From the international artistic reputation of Cannes to the luxurious leisure of the Riviera, France has demonstrated a remarkable capacity to overcome a tumultuous history by enriching the quality of life with those experiences. The diversity of the country will leave you stimulated, satiated and asking for more when you finally treat yourself and travel to France!

Throughout European history, France has been the undisputed pioneer of social revolution and cultural renaissance. An enlightened society with classic charm, France will guide your journey seamlessly through centuries of power and progress, defeats and suffering, all of which possess an essence of timelessness. Travel France in July and witness Bastille Day, a commemoration of the destruction of the prison that King Louis XVI and his predecessors used to quiet social disruption and censor or torture public irritants. The day is symbolic of the value of social freedoms and democratic governance to the French people. The main celebration takes place in Paris at the former site of the Bastille.

Go further back in time and explore the French countryside, which is rich with Roman Ruins dating up until the 5th Century. Gréoux-les-Bains, in the south of France, is known not only for its hot springs but also for the ruins of Roman bath tubs and swimming pools that depended on these springs as a source for hot water. Aix-en-Provence is a well known town central to France's wine and art culture, but also shares a Roman past as an ancient city with two aqueducts demonstrating the technological prowess of the Roman people.

For a more unique experience, travel to the Loire Valley, a bastion of medieval castles, and have yourself a true Châteaux experience. Many of the ancient and classical castles have rooms available for rent, mainly during the summer season. There is no better way to be immersed in French history; plus, the castles often offer the best of the surrounding wine region.

French Travel: More Than a History Lesson
Not only is France a gateway into Europe's enchanting history, the country that is world renowned for its irresistible food, fabulous wines and sophisticated lifestyle does live up to its reputation. Visit Nice to enjoy the coveted Riviera way of life while avoiding the throngs of tourists that swarm to St. Tropez just up the coast. While in Paris, make sure to enjoy a quiche lorraine in a local café somewhere on the outskirts of town in addition to scaling the Eiffel Tower or getting lost in the Louvre. However you choose to travel, there is no way to miss the robust culture and resilient history of France.

For more information on travel to France and other regions in Europe, and <a href="http://www.cfares.com/france/">discount airfare to France</a>, visit <a href="http://www.cfares.com">www.cfares.com</a>.


