Title: 
Turkey Holiday Rentals and Vacation Homes

Word Count:
568

Summary:
Vacationers coming to Turkey, especially the ones who return year after year have an option to cut their costs by avoiding expensive hotels and using vacation rentals in the form a Turkey villa, condo, farmhouse, cottage, apartment, hotel or even a Turkish castle as per their needs and requirements.


Keywords:
Turkey,Antalya,Ankara,Bodrum,rental,List,listing,villa,vacation rentals,holiday rentals,holiday homes,vacation homes,travel,lodging,condo


Article Body:
Vacationing in a country that bridges the great continental land masses of Europe and Asia can be unforgettable. Most tourists vacationing in Turkey often go back there to savor the flavors again. Surrounded by sea on three sides and its capital Istanbul resting on the Bosphorus Strait, the magnificent view of the sea on either side is simply beautiful and breathtaking. Istanbul was the capital of the Ottoman Empire for a few hundred historical years. 

Turkey integrates an internal body of water also known as the Marmara Sea. Located in North-West Turkey, the Uludag Mountain is one of the most well known ski resorts in the area. The coast line of South-Western Turkey on the Aegean Sea, also known as the Turkish Riviera is home to Izmir, the largest city in Turkey. The Turkish Riviera houses many modern styled holiday resorts like Kusadasi and Bodrum.

The most important historic attraction of Turkey is the remnants of Troy that can be found along the northern and central areas of Aegean region. One can see 9 Troys that were built over different periods on top of the previous ones. As all of us know, the very popular and famous historical love story of beautiful Helen and Paris of Troy had caused wars in this region in ancient times. As a reminder of the Troy war lies herein in the form of a replica horse that was used as the final strategy to culminate the war. 

Ephesus, also known as the Asia Minor in the Roman times is still evident in this region. The wonderful library that still stands along with the enormous open-air entertainment theatre and the ancient houses alongside the harbor attract great many vacationers year after year and remind us of the civilization that flourished once upon a time. Another important site to visit is the last house of Virgin Mary situated on Bulbul Dagi near Ephesus. This holy shrine attracts thousands of Christians and Muslims yearly. Not far from here is the grave of St. John the Evangelist who is said to have come to Ephesus with St. Mary in her last years.

Vacationers coming to Turkey, especially the ones who return year after year have an option to cut their costs by avoiding expensive hotels and using vacation rentals in the form a Turkey villa, condo, farmhouse, cottage, apartment, hotel or even a Turkish castle as per their needs and requirements. Many Turkish people love to rent out their regular apartments, villas, cottages or condos on a weekly basis due to their basic need of finances.

Many of these vacation rental options come with staff and are available in near proximity to major tourist attractions across Turkey. Moreover, after the new laws of the government has enabled foreign investors to invest in Turkish real estate, making the vacation rentals more popular and available. As a regular vacationer to Turkey, one may contemplate buying a condo or a villa there and renting it out to other vacationers when they do not need it. Added to these new laws, Turkey’s progress on the issue of its adaptation into the E.U is being speeded up due to the government’s efforts to improve living standard.  This is contributing further to the tourism industry by making available more and more foreign owned vacation rentals.

Turkey is evolving and is set to get expensive. Plan your vacation to Turkey today..!


