Title: 
Vacation in Florida: Your best Destination

Word Count:
292

Summary:
Aptly named the sunshine state, Florida reigns as the most popular holiday destination for its long stretches of sandy beaches, larger-than-life theme parks and near perfect climate all year round. Fringed by 1,200 miles of sugary white beaches and lapped by clear blue seas, the Gulf Coast of Florida offers a unique blend of tropical sunshine, modern Miami culture and warm Southern hospitality. The best way to experience the true spirit of Florida is through a vacation rental home and A1 Florida


Keywords:
Florida Rental Vacation, Florida vacation rental home, Beach Florida vacations rental home, packages, Florida keys, home rentals, villas, destin rentals, Destin Florida, Naples rentals, by owner, Orla


Article Body:
Aptly named the sunshine state, Florida reigns as the most popular holiday destination for its long stretches of sandy beaches, larger-than-life theme parks and near perfect climate all year round. Fringed by 1,200 miles of sugary white beaches and lapped by clear blue seas, the Gulf Coast of Florida offers a unique blend of tropical sunshine, modern Miami culture and warm Southern hospitality. The best way to experience the true spirit of Florida is through a vacation rental home and A1 Florida Vacation Rentals is just the destination for choosing an ideal vacation rental. 
	
A beachfront condo on the Gulf Coast offers enthusiastic beach lovers the perfect sand and sea holiday. Whether it is enjoying a round of golf in the cosmopolitan city of Naples; canoeing through the waterways of Sarasota; fishing at Fort Myers Beach or savoring delicious seafood in Tarpon Springs; Florida Vacation Rentals ensures you have a good time both indoors and outdoors with its exclusive vacation homes. 

Shopping buffs can loosen their purse strings in the fashionable city of Miami. Literally a melting pot of cultures, Miami has something for everyone and a beachfront condo or an apartment from Florida Vacation Rentals provides the perfect outlet to this vibrant city. 

A vacation in Florida would be absolutely incomplete without paying a visit to Mickey’s homeland, Orlando. Brimming with extravagant theme parks, shopping malls, late-night bars, restaurants and family catered entertainment; it’s no surprise why Orlando is called America’s theme capital. In this larger-than-life city, why confine yourself to a boring hotel room, instead opt for a spacious beachfront vacation home from Florida Vacation Rentals.  Whatever region or activity you plan to choose in Florida, there’s only one choice for vacation rentals and that is Florida Vacation Rentals.


