Title: 
Vacationing In The Hamptons

Word Count:
362

Summary:
Located on the North and South Fork of Long Island the area known as the Hamptons is one of the most popular vacation spots in New York. The Hamptons has a deep rich history that goes back to the 1600’s. Like many other New England colonies it was originally farmland, over the years it port of trade, Revolutionary War staging point, refuge for artists and poets, and favorite vacation spot. There are even legends the infamous pirate Captain Kidd visited its shores and left bur...


Keywords:
hamptons, long island, vacation rental, travel


Article Body:
Located on the North and South Fork of Long Island the area known as the Hamptons is one of the most popular vacation spots in New York. The Hamptons has a deep rich history that goes back to the 1600’s. Like many other New England colonies it was originally farmland, over the years it port of trade, Revolutionary War staging point, refuge for artists and poets, and favorite vacation spot. There are even legends the infamous pirate Captain Kidd visited its shores and left buried treasure still waiting to be found.

If you’re looking for treasure in the Hamptons there’s no need to get out your shovel and start digging, just take stroll through any of its quaint towns and shops and you’ll be rewarded. Many of the towns in the Hamptons such as Amagansett, Bridgehampton, and Quogue are filled with historical landmarks, museums and other cultural centers. To get the most out of the Hamptons you’ll need to visit during peak season which runs from Memorial Day through Labor Day. During this time every town and village will have artist’s exhibits, traveling museum exhibits, and photography and music concerts.

Many people who choose to vacation in the Hamptons choose to stay for two to three weeks and there is a wide range of lodging choices to choose from. The most basic will be the Bed & Breakfast Inn’s. Run by the owners and a small staff there is no way you can beat them on service and price. If you are looking for something a little more private there are many traditional motels and hotels all across the Hamptons that can accommodate you. When you want get the most out of a Hampton’s vacation consider renting a beachfront house or cottage. The styles range from small intimate cottages, to large palatial modern mansions. Beachfront properties are the most sought after locations. Nothing can quite compare to watching a sunrise from a private balcony every morning. The next time your looking for a place to get away from your daily stress unplug and recharge your batteries, a vacation to the Hamptons may be just the ticket.


