Title: 
Valencia Spain - What A Great Travel Experience

Word Count:
719

Summary:
Valentia, dating back to 137 B.C., is what we now know as Valencia, Spain. If there was any confusion as to where Valencia is or what it is known for, the city's renovation with breathtaking architecture turned into museums, aquariums and Imax cinemas plus the hosting of the world famous America's Cup 2007 has definitely put it on the map. Valencia has gone through all kinds of cultures, taking advantage of each one's contributions, from the Romans through the Arabs, the Cath...


Keywords:
valencia,spain,travel,airport,car hire,hotel,flight,


Article Body:
Valentia, dating back to 137 B.C., is what we now know as Valencia, Spain. If there was any confusion as to where Valencia is or what it is known for, the city's renovation with breathtaking architecture turned into museums, aquariums and Imax cinemas plus the hosting of the world famous America's Cup 2007 has definitely put it on the map. Valencia has gone through all kinds of cultures, taking advantage of each one's contributions, from the Romans through the Arabs, the Catholic Kings with Ferninand and Isabel, the dictatorship of Franco up to the democratic Spain which now exists. All of this and all that is happening nowadays is what has made Valencia, Spain what it is today and what it will be tomorrow.

Starting in the 70's, this Mediterranean city began hosting important congresses, now even better equipped with the new vanguard Music Auditorium and Congress hall built in 1988 in the old river-bed of the Turia River. A little further down the river-bed, you will find an impressive group of four white modern buildings, each one offering beauty to the eyes from the outside and an eye-opening experience on the inside. This is the biggest cultural free time resort within a city in all Europe. 

The City of the Arts and Science consists of:

1.The Oceanographic Park
A spectacular revelation of the different phases of marine life, bringing what was once far away and unknown, close to the human eye.

2.Hemispheric Planetarium
Brought about so that once again, the spectator can experiment for themselves the attractive sensations of what space is all about. Through the most modern technology with Imax cinemas and laser shows, you are brought so close to outer space through impacting images and sounds.

3.The Prince Philip Science Museum
This was designed to house permanent science theme related expositions and modern technology.

4.The Arts Palace
This building will soon be completed and will be destined to the creation and diffusion of the scenic arts.

Heaps of fun for everyone in Valencia

There are so many other attractions for everyone's likings, all located inside the city centre and very easy to get to by bus, metro or car hire, such as the IVAM ( Valencian Institute of Modern Art ), Guillen de Castro Street no. 118, open Tuesdays to Sundays from 10 a.m. until 8 p.m. It usually costs 2 euros but Sundays and holidays are free. The Palace of the Marquee of Dos Aguas, found in a beautifully decorated alabaster building on the outside and typical Valencian ceramic and horse carriages on the inside. It is found on Poeta Querol Street no. 2, open Tuesdays to Saturdays from 10 to 2, from 4 to 8 but Sundays and holidays only from 10 to 2. Saturday afternoons and Sunday mornings it is free and on the other days it costs 2.50 euros. But do not stop here, visit one of the many tourist offices within the city centre and get free information and timetable for all.

Las Fallas, the most popular street celebration in Valencia dating back to the 16th century is quite an event. It is celebrated from March 15th to 19th, where during five long days and nights you can enjoy seeing over 350 huge carton monuments on almost every corner, religious parades made up of the local lads and lassies dressed in beautiful brocade vestiments, offering bouquets of flowers to the Virgen Mary. All this can be seen in and around the Basilica Square where the flowers are artistically made into the Virgen's cape, with the baby Jesus held in her arms. But if you could not plan your visit or flight for these days, there is a fantastic Fallas Museum in the Monteolivete Square no. 4 which is the home of the most voted figures which have been saved from being burnt, which is the highlight of this celebration.

Valencia, Spain and its sea adventure

All that has been mentioned before has been and will continue to be part of this city's life for a long time, but the Americas Cup 2007, the most important yachting and sailing event in the world will only happen once. So if you are still planning some fantastic vacations and want a lot of new thrills, catch a flight to Valencia and book your hotel early to make sure that your holidays will be smooth sailing!


