Title: 
Valencia And Wine

Word Count:
419

Summary:
Valencia is famous for its wine production; many of its wines are exported overseas for use in restaurants, or for personal use. Valencia’s weather climate and soil consistencies form the perfect conditions for wine production.

Wine is a delicacy to be served with meals and on special occasions. Valencia is well known for its fiestas and celebrations throughout the year, so wine is often a part Valencia’s lifestyle. 

Knowing which type of wine to select with your meal, ...


Keywords:



Article Body:
Valencia is famous for its wine production; many of its wines are exported overseas for use in restaurants, or for personal use. Valencia’s weather climate and soil consistencies form the perfect conditions for wine production.

Wine is a delicacy to be served with meals and on special occasions. Valencia is well known for its fiestas and celebrations throughout the year, so wine is often a part Valencia’s lifestyle. 

Knowing which type of wine to select with your meal, or to give as a present is important, as you will want to compliment your dinner with the right wine, or surprise your guest with a wine that suits their tastes.

Essentially, there are types of wine and all of some of these are more suitable to certain types of foods than others. White wines usually go well with white meat dishes, such as fish and chicken, while red wines traditionally go with red meat and pasta dishes.

Generally, there are sweet and dry wines, which can be found in both white and red wine varieties. If you are looking for a sweet white wine you might choose a Riesling. Leaving the grapes on the grape vines for a longer period of time makes sweet wines. 

When looking for a sweet red wine you might try a merlot, or a cabernet sauvignon, both of which a delightful sweet red wine varieties. If looking for a dry white wine, you might try a Pinot Noir, or Sauvignon Blanc and if looking for a dry red wine you might try a Shiraz.

All wines should be chilled either in a fridge, or bucket of ice, prior to drinking, as this allows you to derive the most benefit from the wines flavors and experience. Also, most consumable wines are designed to be drunk within a few years from being made, so if you are buying wine for your cellar, keep this in mind.

Well, now that you know a little bit more about wines, you can enjoy Valencia’s wines by making the right choices. Valencia wines can be sampled in its many restaurants and also at the Spanish Wine Festival, known as the ‘La Rioja Wine Festival’.

The ‘La Rioja Wine Festival’ Wine Festival is a celebration of Spanish wines and, during this time, there are events and wine tasting, dinners and lots of merriment. Valencia also holds many fiestas throughout the year, which feature food and wine, such as the ‘La Tomatina’ Fiesta and the ‘Fiesta Fallas de San Jose’.


