Title: 
Vanuatu - Your Invitation To Paradise

Word Count:
535

Summary:
Escape from the daily grind and combine a rejuvenating holiday where you can relax on white sandy beaches, take a swim with the friendly colorful reef fish that eat straight out of your hands.
Shop at the many duty free retailers and visit the local market and to top your day off why not head out to one of the many restaurants that provide a wide range of local seafood and cuisine.

Vanuatu is a land of rich lush tropical rainforests, beautiful blue lagoons, waterfalls and...


Keywords:
vanuatu, travel, leisure, beach, holiday


Article Body:
Escape from the daily grind and combine a rejuvenating holiday where you can relax on white sandy beaches, take a swim with the friendly colorful reef fish that eat straight out of your hands.
Shop at the many duty free retailers and visit the local market and to top your day off why not head out to one of the many restaurants that provide a wide range of local seafood and cuisine.

Vanuatu is a land of rich lush tropical rainforests, beautiful blue lagoons, waterfalls and a myriad of hidden bays and beaches that range from snow white to volcanic black. Not forgetting the warm waters of aqua and dark blues with a fascinating underwater world of colorful tropical fish that live amongst magnificent underwater wrecks and coral reef formations.

The untouched tropical paradise, of the South Pacific lies only 2 hours from Brisbane, Australia. Meaning 'Land Eternal', Vanuatu is a chain of 83 islands from volcanic beginnings formed in a Y-shaped archipelago which stretches over some 800kms of the Pacific Ocean, half way between Australia and Hawaii. 

The capital, Port Vila is a well developed tourist destination that boasts one of the most beautiful natural harbors in the world. The town offers excellent restaurants, duty free shopping, and a colorful local market. Port Vila is a town that is never raced and never in a hurry. A gentle, peaceful place where the locals and visitors alike can simply take the time to enjoy just how blessed it has been by nature.

The rural areas of Vanuatu require a more adventurous spirit. Yet it is here that over 80% of the Ni-Vanuati people live in small villages, maintaining the Melanesian culture as it has been for thousands of years. The Ni-Vanuatu people are a gentle, loving, friendly and peaceful people, who enjoys life's simpler pleasures in a country of diverse and unique customs and culture. There are experiences for the traveller not found anywhere else in the world. 

Vanuatu is recognized as one of the most culturally diverse countries in the world. There are small communities of French, British, Australian, New Zealand, Vietnamese, Chinese and other Pacific Islands people living in harmony with the Ni-Vanuati. This virgin tropical paradise of the South Pacific blue waters is of such beauty that one will never want to leave.

Treat yourself to 5 Star accommodation and relax in the luxury that is the DXGrand Hotel. Boasting stunning views of Port-Vila and Mele Bay, the DXGrand Hotel offers unsurpassed quality in features, comfort and service. Go deep sea fishing, put on your scuba gear and dive into the crystal blue water to view the amazing creatures, catch a short plane ride to a near-by island and take a walk up an active volcano to view the spectacular eruptions.

Why not take advantage of the great holiday packages available and come and experience the peaceful lifestyle of a relatively new country where the true island living can be seen while you are still looked after in style.

Perhaps you may wish to visit other small local islands and see the happiness and activity in the local ni-Vanuati people showing you their local craft and why not stay for the local feast of beautiful food.


