Title: 
Visit Palm Springs California

Word Count:
518

Summary:
Whether you like sitting around the pool at a luxury hotel, dining at fine dining establishments, golfing at some of the best golf courses in the nation, hiking in the nearby mountains, playing tennis on top rate courts, gaming at indian casinos, partying at exclusive night spots, mountain and trail bike riding, spending the day or week being pampered at a luxurious spa, shopping in designer stores or celebrity gazing, you can do it all year long in or near Palm Springs.


Keywords:
palm springs,california,ca,travel,leisure,tourism,destinations,vacations


Article Body:
The playground of Palm Springs, California is less than a two hour drive from most cities in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego Counties and less than an an hours drive from the cities of Riverside and San Bernardino. It is approximetly 130 miles from the Los Angeles International Airport and 100 miles from the Orange County John Wayne Airport. 

Whether you like sitting around the pool at a luxury hotel, dining at fine dining establishments, golfing at some of the best golf courses in the nation, hiking in the nearby mountains, playing tennis on top rate courts, gaming at indian casinos, partying at exclusive night spots, mountain and trail bike riding, spending the day or week being pampered at a luxurious spa, shopping in designer stores or celebrity gazing, you can do it all year long in or near Palm Springs. 

Palm Springs is a desert city, surrounded and sheltered by mountains and sits approximately 466 feet above sea level. It's average yearly high temperature is in the high eighties, it's average yearly low temperature is in the mid fifties and it's average yearly rainfall is less than eight inches. This makes Palm Springs a city that can be enjoyed any time of the year. 

Play golf where the pros play. The Palm Springs area has over 100 beautiful, exquisitely maintained golf courses, some of which are famous throughout the world. Play tennis at some of the best tennis courts and clubs around. If you like shopping, you will find a myriad of art galleries, antique shops, designer boutiques, craft shops, jewelry stores, malls and shopping centers, carrying almost anything you might wish to purchase. Be pampered like royalty, stay in luxury hotels and spas like the Hilton Palm Springs, the Palm Springs Riviera Resort & Racquet Club, the Hyatt Regency Suites, the Parker Meridien Palm Springs, the Spa Resort Casino, the Wyndham Palm Springs Hotel and dozens of others. Relax and rejuvenate is one of the many health and beauty spas that Palm Springs is famous for. Take a 2.5 mile ride up the mountain on the Palm Springs Aerial Tramway. Visit the Moorten Botanical Gardens with it's nature trails and over 3,000 varieties of cacti, succulents and flowers. Tour the Joshua Tree National Park with it's amazing desert scenery, rock gardens and 1000 year old Joshua Trees. Experience the culinary arts of some of the finest chefs is some of the best restaurants in the world. Party and dance at top night clubs. Etc., Etc., Etc.. 

This article has barely started to cover the things you can experience in the Palm Springs area. To cover everything would take several books instead of an article. Whether you stay a night, a weekend, a week or a month you will never run out of things to do and experience. 

For more information about the city of Palm Springs, California see: <a href="http://palmsprings.usacitydirectories.com" target=noframes">http://palmsprings.usacitydirectories.com</a>, a directory of links to the city of Palm Springs, California guides and directories listing hotels, restaurants, attorneys, real estate brokers, information, resources, services, things to do, places to go and more.


