Title: 
Visit Carmel California

Word Count:
368

Summary:
Just south of Monterey lies the beach city of Carmel, California also known as Carmel By The Sea. Although the city has a population of less than 5,000 people it has over 90 art galleries, numerous antique shops, 14 churches, more than 50 hotels, resorts and inns, 2 golf courses, several restaurants and outdoor cafes, over a dozen wineries and tasting Rooms and numerous souvenir and boutique shops.


Keywords:
carmel,california,travel,destinations,tourism,vacations


Article Body:
Just south of Monterey lies the beach city of Carmel, California also known as Carmel By The Sea. Although the city has a population of less than 5,000 people it has over 90 art galleries, numerous antique shops, 14 churches, more than 50 hotels, resorts and inns, 2 golf courses, several restaurants and outdoor cafes, over a dozen wineries and tasting Rooms and numerous souvenir and boutique shops.<br><br>
Carmel which is famous for having had Clint Eastwood as mayor and has also been the residence of people like Doris Day, Upton Sinclair, Henry Miller and Jack London, is on the Monterey Penninsula and is surrounded by areas like Monterey, Big Sur, Pebble Beach, Point Lobos, Pacific Grove, Salinas And Seaside. Tour 17 Mile Drive, golf at some of the world's best golf courses, visit Fisherman's Wharf, Cannery Row and the Monterey Bay Aquarium, drive down the Big Sur coast, go whale watching in Monterey Bay and see Gray, Humpback and Blue Whales, camp at one of the many beach, river or redwood country campgrounds, go scuba diving, fish the waters off the penninsula for salmon, tuna, halibut, rockcod and more or just sit around and relax.<br><br>
According to the Carmel Chamber Of Commerce "Carmel has consistently been voted one of the top tourist destinations in the country and you have to see it to believe it. It is located on a breathtaking white sand beach and the quaint European style village offers romance, gourmet dining, shopping and fun." "Carmel has been a mecca for artists, writers, actors and playwrights intent on creating an intellectual and cultural oasis. Each year, visitors are drawn to the diverse festivals and events which promote and enhance the creative traditions of Carmel. The annual Carmel Art Festival, Carmel Bach Festival, and the Carmel Shake-speare Festival are just a sampling of events presented by professional artists, actors and musicians from Carmel and around the world."
<br><br>
For more information about the city of Carmel, California see <a href="http://carmel.usacitydirectories.com" target=noframes">http://carmel.usacitydirectories.com</a>, a directory of links to city of Carmel, California guides and directories listing information, resources, services, things to do, places to go and more.


