Title: 
Visit Delhi - the vibrant capital city of India

Word Count:
517

Summary:
One of the biggest metropolises in India, Delhi is home to whopping population of millions of people. The historical, cultural and the political center of the country, Delhi has gradually emerged as the industrial hub of the Northern India. Being the National capital, Delhi is conveniently connected to all the major cities of the world, with almost all the major airlines operating out of here.


Keywords:
flights to new delhi, india fares, fares to india, deals to india, cheap airfare deals


Article Body:
One of the biggest metropolis in India, Delhi is home to whopping population of millions of people. The historical, cultural and the political center of the country, Delhi has gradually emerged as the industrial hub of the Northern India. A heady mix of the old and new, Delhi retains the old heritage and glory and is one of the most modern cities in India with skyscrapers and neon lit malls. A city with its antiquity dating back to more than 2,000 years, Delhi is the one of the oldest places in the world. From street bazaars to plush shopping malls and from historic monuments to contemporary buildings, Delhi is full of surprises!

Delhi has witnessed the ascent and descent of several mighty empires, this is why you will find a number of historical monuments in the city, each one representing a different era. Many of the interesting sites found in and around the city are the ruins of the buildings and areas that played a crucial role in the history of India. This is merely a reason why thousands of visitors take <a href="http://www.onetravelindia.com/travel/us-delhi.asp">flights to delhi</a>. Some of the most popular venues in Delhi include; the Red Fort and Jama Masjid, the quaint streets of Chandni Chowk in Old Delhi, and Lotus temple, Humayun’s Tomb, Qutub Minar, and the newly constructed Akshardham temple in New Delhi.

The center for tourists hordes coming to Delhi is Cannaught Place. Here you will find plenty of shops, top class restaurant, and pubs too. Walking through the lanes of Cannaught Place, you will come across the largest collection of art and trade stores, where you can haggle for native crafts. If you have flexible travel plans then do spend some time visiting this place. You will surely have a good time over here. Another such place offering traditional Indian crafts is 'Dilli Haat', a modern craft bazaar resembling the original village market. While you are here, don't forget to enjoy the assortment of culinary delights available at the 'Food Brasserie'. 

Whether its shopping or eating out, Delhi offers a plenty of options to its visitors. Wear your shoes, put some cash in your wallet and get ready to shop and haggle as much as you can in Delhi's markets. From the visitors first preference, the street market at Janpath road to the fashionable market at South Extension and from the export market at Sarojini Nagar to expensive boutiques in shopping malls, there is so much for you!

The ideal time to explore Delhi is from October to November and from February to March, when the temperatures are mild. There are numerous tour operators that provide half and full day guided tours for attractions in and around Delhi. Being the National capital, Delhi is conveniently connected to all the major cities of the world, with almost all the major airlines operating out of here. If you are planning a trip to Delhi, then check out the discount delhi <a href="http://www.onetravelindia.com/travel/topdeals.asp">india airfare</a> at Onetravelindia.com!


