Title: 
Visitors Guide to Orlando, Florida, USA

Word Count:
606

Summary:
The world-famous city of Orlando is located in the central area of the state of Florida, in the USA. Home to the world's number-one tourist attraction, Walt Disney World, Orlando also offers a range of must-see sights, which are popular with both children and adults.


Keywords:
Orlando, Florida, USA, tourism, tourist attractions, Walt Disney World, weather, where to stay, hotels shopping, transport


Article Body:
The world-famous city of Orlando is located in the central area of the state of Florida, in the USA. Home to the world's number-one tourist attraction, Walt Disney World, Orlando also offers a range of must-see sights, which are popular with both children and adults.  Ranging from historical museums to vast water parks, landscaped gardens to superb restaurants, Orlando has it all and is one of America's most popular vacation options, attracting visitors from all over the world.

Orlando is a spreading city and covers almost 100 square miles / 260 square kilometers, with a population of around 200,000.  Acclaimed as perhaps the ultimate family holiday destination, Orlando is also known for its outstanding shopping malls, vibrant nightlife and sports facilities.  Other popular attractions can be found in nearby towns and cities, including Kissimmee.

Orlando Transport:
Around Orlando, public transport is well maintained and the city offers a number of options, which include taxis, coaches, trains, trams, and buses operated by the Central Florida Regional Transportation Authority.  Renting a car is one of the most popular ways to travel around the Orlando area and allows the freedom to explore the nearby towns, which surround the city.

Florida's number one airport, the bustling Orlando International Airport (MCO), is located close to the city and each month sees several million passengers arriving and departing.  Also, the smaller Orlando Sanford International Airport (SFB) is nearby and has two terminals, offering a range of flights.  Both airports provide a selection of reasonably priced ground transportation, which travels into central Orlando.

Where to Stay in Orlando:
Since the arrival of Disney's Magic Kingdom, the tourist trade in Orlando has grown dramatically, together with the number of hotels.  Orlando now offers an enormous selection of hotels, both throughout the city and clustered around many of the popular attractions, particularly Disney World.  The nearby town of Kissimmee is just a short trip from Orlando and offers many reasonably priced hotels, which are often more conveniently located and offer better value for money.

Orlando Shopping:
Orlando is an impressive shopping destination offering a huge selection of outstanding shops and stores. Facilities include an endless range of designer outlets, many well-known department stores, countless fashion boutiques and sprawling shopping malls. Popular shopping areas include the famous International Drive, together with South Orange Blossom Trail, West Oakridge Road and Vineland Road.

Orlando Tourism:
Tourist attractions in Orlando are outstanding, making Orlando the ideal holiday destination. Facilities include many major landmarks and monuments, museums, art galleries, historical sights, recreational and sporting activities, and in-depth guided tours of the city. Top attractions in Orlando include the Disney Magic Kingdom - complete with its fairytale castle and Mickey Mouse attractions; the Universal Studios - with many outstanding rides, such as the 'Back to the Future' ride and the 'Earthquake'; the Epcot Center - Disney's vision of the future; and the MGM Studios Theme Park - where you will find many movie-related rides and tours.

Other popular places to visit in Orlando include the Church Street Station, Gatorland, Leu Botanical Gardens, the Orlando Science Center, Ripley's Believe It or Not! Wet 'n' Wild and Sea World of Florida - home to Shamu the killer whale and featuring more than 200 acres / 80 hectares of marine stadiums and lagoons.

Orlando Weather:
Orlando has a subtropical and extremely warm climate, with hot summer weather and sunshine throughout the year.  The city has become a year-round resort, with little rain and predictable high temperatures.  Winters (from December to April) are mild and pleasant and many of the city's most popular festivals are held at this time of the year.  Summers (from June to September) are hot, with temperatures consistently in the 80s and 90s.


