Title: 
Visit Italy: Rome and Milan

Word Count:
538

Summary:
Beautifully historic yet so fashionably up to date, Italy has all the components of the Dolce Vita in good measure - good food, good wine and beautiful people impeccably attired in the latest fashions.


Keywords:
Italy, Hotels,Accommodation, Cheap, Rome, Milan


Article Body:
Beautifully historic yet so fashionably up to date, Italy has all the components of the Dolce Vita in good measure - good food, good wine and beautiful people impeccably attired in the latest fashions.

Weather
Italy is a long country running from the mountainous north down to the sunny south kissed by the Mediterranean. So there are wide regional differences in climate. Generally the most pleasant time to visit Italy is during autumn and spring.
 
Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of Italy hotels.

Rome: the home of renaissance 
Rome, the capital city of Italy, is world famous for its history and monuments - the Colosseum, the Vatican City to name a few. With so much art, culture, history and  religion, Rome is an unforgettable destination. 

Transport: how to get there and around
The international airport is situated 16 miles out of the city centre and is served by a regular train service which runs every hour into town. Many of the bus services run from the main station near Stazione Termini. The Metro service also connects with Termini. 

Weather
The weather does vary according to the time of year. The summer can be extremely hot and the Winter brings a chill. During the rest of the year temperatures are pleasant with a mild climate.

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of Hotels in Rome.

Attractions & Events
*During the Holy Week at Easter time, the city is crowded with Catholic pilgrims visiting the churches and the Vatican to see the Pope. There is also a procession on Good Friday from the Colosseum to Capitoline Hill. 

*The streets come alive from June to September when the Romans celebrate Estate Romana (Roman Summer) with outdoor theatre, concerts and cinema

*Late night shoppers should head to Rome during September for Notte Bianca (white night). Stores, galleries and museums stay open through the night until 8am in the morning!

Milan: city of design and innovation
Milan is all about lifestyle. Who needs beautiful buildings if you're going to shop all day or spend you hours in a theatre, cinema, night club or restaurant? 

Transport: how to get there and around
There are two airports serving Milan, for international flights there is Malpensa airport and domestic is Linate airport. You can also get to Linate airport from some European destinations.

The train station known as Stazione Central connects to an extensive network to get you in and around Milan. The city also boasts underground trains, trams and buses.

Weather
The weather in Milan can be described as temperate most of the time, with the exception of the occasion heat wave.

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of Hotels in Milan.

Attractions & Events
*The Festa del Naviglio starts at the beginning of June and brings ten days of performances, music and parades.

*Enjoy live music in November with The Milan Jazz Festival.
 
*There are celebrations on 7 December with the Festa di Sant'Ambrogio. Milan’s La Scala opera house also opens its season on this day.


