Title: 
Visiting Zurich – A Unique Swiss Experience

Word Count:
524

Summary:
Visiting Zurich a must do on your trip to Switzerland


Keywords:
Discount hotels in Zurich


Article Body:
Copyright 2006 Fionnuala Downhill

Whether visiting for business or pleasure Zurich is a joy to visit, lavish yet quaint a must see on your trip to Switzerland.

There are many beautiful sights to see and things to do in Zurich Switzerland that will entice the senses and free the mind. This beautiful city was once famed for being the cleanest in Europe, and travelers scoured the town in hopes of finding one speck of dirt or cigarette butt. However, their attempts always left them empty handed.

Today Zurich is filled with a myriad of clubs, quaint café’s and coffee shops. Additionally, this city beholds some of the most beautiful sights that one will ever see.  Most of the city is filled with cobblestone streets and narrow pathways for visitors to wonder through. It also features old, historic buildings that give a taste of life that once was. As visitors gaze into the distance, they will find snow-covered mountains as well as modern mansions that dot the shores of the lake. It’s a very stunning sight to behold indeed.

Zurich is also known for extravagant shopping and boutiques fill almost every street. The city also is host to some of the most extraordinary museums and galleries. Those with a fine taste for shopping as well as art will have to check out the busy business district of Zurich as there is a little bit of something for everyone.

Zurich West is an industrial neighborhood that is being reinvented so to speak. This area was filled with factories and old buildings at one point in time, but now it’s being turned into a hub filled with dance clubs and fine dining. What was once bland is turning into a fabulous area that will be popular for tourists once the project is complete.

Of course, travelers will also want to get a taste of the outdoors, as Zurich features some of the best ski slopes ever! Visitors can take a cable car ride to the top of the snowy peaks and visit the restaurant that is located at the top of the mountains. Once warmed up, skiers can try their hand at a myriad of slopes, some of which are bigger than those in the Rockies. They also say that the snow in Switzerland is whiter than white, but we will leave that up to the tourists to decide. However, it is safe to say that Switzerland features some of the best skiing in the world. 

Beautiful sights and lavish nightlife await those who travel to the quaint little town of Zurich. The people that live there are just as charming as the city itself, and are willing to help you with any questions or concerns that you may have. The dining and shopping are unbelievable, and the museum and galleries will enlighten your mind and spirit. Travelers will also find that the city is as clean as ever, just as it was back in the old days. If you ever have the chance to visit this breath-taking city, I recommend you go, as it will be a trip that you will not soon forget!


