Title: 
Visitors Guide to Rome, Lazio, Italy

Word Count:
599

Summary:
One of the world's most historic and fascinating cities, Rome is famous for its rich heritage and important buildings.  Many magnificent monuments and truly ancient ruins reside in Rome, together with numerous vibrant shopping areas, restaurants and sightseeing opportunities.


Keywords:
Rome, Lazio, Italy, tourism, transport, hotels, accommodation, restaurants, shopping


Article Body:
One of the world's most historic and fascinating cities, Rome is famous for its rich heritage and important buildings.  Many magnificent monuments and truly ancient ruins reside in Rome, together with numerous vibrant shopping areas, restaurants and sightseeing opportunities.  The city has much to offer tourists and also offers a selection of nearby beaches.

Standing alongside the scenic River Tiber, Rome has a population of almost 3 million and experiences hot summer weather and particularly mild, pleasant winters.  With year-round attractions, many people choose to visit Rome between November to February, when the city is at its quietest.

Rome Hotels:
Being one of Italy's most popular tourist destinations, it is hardly surprising that Rome is full of hotels, catering for all tastes and budgets.  Ranging from impressive hotels in the Centro Storico (historic centre), to more modern accommodation around the Campo dei Fiori, hotels in Rome quickly become fully booked, and so be sure to reserve your room in advance.  Bed and breakfasts in Rome are known as 'pensioni' and often provide particularly good value for money, with a number being located close to the 'Stazione Termini' railway station and Trastevere area.

Rome Tourism:
Rome has long been a major tourist destination and its historical attractions and important ruins are known throughout the world.  However, the city is also an exciting and vibrant place to visit, with many impressive shops, restaurants, entertainment venues and seasonal festivals.  Some of the most popular places to visit in Rome include the Circus Maximus, the Coliseum, the Forum, the Pantheon, Janiculum Hill, the Trevi Fountain, the Spanish Steps, and the vast Vatican City, the official residence of the Pope, head of the Roman Catholic faith.  The Sistine Chapel at the Vatican City is particularly awe-inspiring, together with the city's numerous art galleries and museums.

Popular events in the city include many operas, ballets and concerts at Rome's numerous theatres.  Other seasonal highlights include regular football matches at the Stadio Olimpico, the Rome Marathon each March, religious events throughout Easter, concerts at the Teatro Olimpico, June's Pesaro Film Festival, and also the Festa della Madonna della Neve, held every August.

Rome Transport:
With good rail connections to a number of major cities, including Florence and Venice, Rome is well-connected by highways, which provide easy access to nearby towns.  Rome's Metro subway network, public buses and trams all provide inexpensive ways to travel throughout the city.  Car rental is one of the most popular ways to travel out of the city and is perfect for day trips and excursions.

Located around 18 miles / 29 km from the city centre, Leonardo da Vinci Airport, also known as Fiumicino, is an important air transport hub.  Dealing with large numbers of domestic and international flights each day, ground transportation at the airport includes buses, trains and car hire.

Rome Shopping:
Known for its chic fashion boutiques and expensive department stores, shopping in Rome is a major attraction. With many bustling shops clustered around the Piazza Di Spagna, other popular stores can be found around the city's Via Del Governo Vecchio area, close to the Spanish Steps, along the Via Sistina, and on Via Borgognona.  Also, the pedestrianized Via Frattina is the perfect place for some serious window shopping.

Rome Restaurants:
Home to one of the greatest cuisines in the world, Italian restaurants are known for their superb local specialities, which include freshly made pizzas, pasta dishes, paninis, salads, a selection of cheeses and many other types of food.  Al fresco dining is particularly popular in Rome, with an array of cafes, bars and superb ice cream shops clustered around the piazzas.


