Title: 
Visit Delray Beach Florida

Word Count:
538

Summary:
Just south of Palm Beach and less than an hour's drive north of Miami, Florida, you will find the resort city of Delray Beach, Florida, with it's over two miles of clean well maintained sandy beaches, historic downtown shopping area, beautiful gardens and parks, world class tennis center, golf courses and it's large variety of hotels and motels.


Keywords:
delray beach,florida,fl,travel,destinations,vacations,leisure,tourism


Article Body:
Just south of Palm Beach and less than an hour's drive north of Miami, Florida, you will find the resort city of Delray Beach, Florida, with it's over two miles of clean well maintained sandy beaches, historic downtown shopping area, beautiful gardens and parks, world class tennis center, golf courses and it's large variety of hotels and motels. 

Looking for a place to stay? Try the Breakers-On-The-Ocean, (561) 278-4501, with it's picture perfect beach setting and it's 200 feet of private beach, complimentary beach cabanas, putting green, ocean front suites and ocean view apartments, the recently renovated and restored Colony Hotel And Cabana Club, (800) 552-2363, with it's 70 guestrooms, all with vinage tropical furniture, fabrics and colors, hardwood floors, unique appointments and Florida works of art, personal air conditioning and operable windows or the Delray Beach Marriott, (561) 274-3200, with it's soft sandy beach, heated pool, on site spa and fitness center, rooms with private balconys and it's Marriott service. If you don't like these hotels there are numerous others to choose from. 

Feel like some golf? Check out the Delray Beach Golf Club, (561) 243-7380, a 1923 Donald Ross Design located off of Atlantic Avenue just three miles west of the historic Downtown Delray Beach area. This jewel is a meticulously manicured championship track, and features 6,907 yards and a par-72 or the Lakeview Golf Club, (561) 498-3229, a 3,006 yard, par 60 executive golf course, built in 1972. There are also over 100 other golf courses surrounding the Delray Beach area. 

Spend your days, sunning, swimming and playing on the two miles of, clean well maintained, beach. Go scuba diving or snorkeling in the clear warm Atlantic waters. Cruise the calm protected waters of the Intercoastal Waterway. Visit the Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens, (561) 495-0233, with it's two museum buildings which house 5,000 Japanese art objects and artifacts, including a 500-piece collection of tea ceremony items, more than 200 textile pieces and recent fine art acquisitions, and it's 200 acres of expansive Japanese gardens with strolling paths, resting areas, tropical bonsai collection, small lakes teeming with koi and other wildlife, nature trails, pine forests and park and picnic areas. Visit the American Orchid Society, (561) 404-2000, a botanical paradise with thousands of orchids on it's 3.5 acres of themed gardens and a magnificent display greenhouse. Play tennis at the Delray Beach Tennis Center, 561-243-7360, with it's 14 clay courts and 7 hard courts, an upstairs pavilion and conference room, and a pro shop with a locker room, racquet stringing and merchandise. Go shopping in downtown Delray Beach, with it's brick sidewalks, historic architecture, antique shoppes, gift shoppes, boutiques, art galleries and more. 

If you want more to do, take a scenic drive down to Miami, stop in Fort Lauderdale on the way, or go up to Palm Beach and go shopping on Worth Avenue. Take a tour of the everglades or go sport fishing. There are enough activities in or near Delray Beach to keep you occupied for a day, a week, a month or even longer. 

For more information about the city of Delray Beach, Florida see: <a href="http://delraybeachfl.usacitydirectories.com" target=noframes">http://delraybeachfl.usacitydirectories.com</a>, a directory of links to the city of Delray Beach, Florida guides and directories listing hotels, restaurants, attorneys, real estate brokers, information, resources, services, things to do, places to go and more.


