Title: 
Visiting the Iti National Park

Word Count:
351

Summary:
The Iti National Park in Greece is one of the main natural parks tourists could meet in this country.


Keywords:
europe, greece, travel, vacation, holiday, tourism


Article Body:
The Iti National Park in Greece is one of the main natural parks tourists could meet in this country. This park is situated towards the southern side of the valley of River Sperchios and counts with a wide variety of trees, plants and animals which provide it with a very unique and interesting environment.

Those tourists who enjoy green areas, trees and plants could be able to have a great time while visiting the Iti National Park. Within the park, visitors can meet some unique trees and plants such as, per example, oaks, cedars, oleanders, arbutus, and the Alpine lily lilium cholcedonium. 

Besides its plants and trees, this park counts with a very special fauna that consists on a great amount and variety of animals of different species. The Iti National Park has wild goats, wild boars, deer, rodents, tortoises, reptiles, as well as an amazing variety of birds among which there are vultures, eagles, partridges, hoopoes, hawks, and owls.

There are many interesting things to do and spots to meet while being in the Iti National Park and its surroundings. Among these interesting spots there is the Monastery of Agathanos, the Museum of Natural History, the Archeological Museum of Lamia, the Byzantine Museum, the River Sperchios, and the River Gorgopotamos with its antique bridge among several others.

The Iti National Park is situated within Mount Iti, a spot which is famous by its birds and abundant forestation. This way, those who enjoy meeting interesting and unique birds, as well as those who like being out doors and breath fresh air, would be able to have a great time while visiting this park and its surroundings.

Mount Iti is characterized by having four main and deep gorges mixed with an amazing forestation and its fauna, and part of it is considered a wild life refuge protected by some organizations who are involved with the care for natural environments. This mount also offers some spots ideal to agriculture due to the richness of its lands, and as it can be noticed, it is a paradisiacal spot to all those who love nature.


