Title: 
Visiting France: Paris and Nice

Word Count:
592

Summary:
For a holiday you will always treasure, be sure to visit France. With so much to offer within one country, France hosts the most tourists than any other country in the world. From romantic, cultural Paris to the heights of the snowcapped French Alps to the southern sizzling beaches. France hotels can add to the splendor of your trip with an amazing selection that can be found with ease on the internet.


Keywords:
 France, Hotels, Accommodation, Cheap, Paris, Nice


Article Body:
For a holiday you will always treasure, be sure to visit France. With so much to offer within one country, France hosts the most tourists than any other country in the world. From romantic, cultural Paris to the heights of the snowcapped French Alps to the southern sizzling beaches. France hotels can add to the splendor of your trip with an amazing selection that can be found with ease on the internet.

Paris: fashion capital of Europe 
Surrounded by style and romance you just cant help fall in love with Paris. Notre Dame, the Eiffel Tower, street café’s and fashion boulevards, a boat trip on the River Seine there is so much to see and experience.

Transport: how to get there and around:
The main airport which greets most visitors to Paris is Charles de Gaulle. Paris can also be reached with ease by train from surrounding countries and many destinations within France. If traveling from the UK the ferry is also an option.

Getting around Paris is best on foot, it’s a great place for walking and sightseeing. If your not feeling so energetic there is a metro system. 

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of hotels in Paris. 

Weather
Paris is fortunate to be situated in a basin so has little rain compared with the rest of the country. Generally the weather in the capital is temperate. 

Attractions & Events
Parisians love to celebrate, here are just a few events you should look out for.

* The glamorous Paris Fashion Week showcases the latest designer spring collections in March.

*Bastille Day is a special day for the whole country. The French National Day is celebrated in Paris with style on the 14th July with parades, parties and fireworks.  

*The International Photo Fair is also worth a visit and takes place in November. 

Nice: treasure of the Côte d’Azur
Nice has a special ambiance and charm that attracts a great number of visitors to walk through its old cobblestone streets. Nice offers history, culture as well as the modern delights of shopping and night life. Add to this the long stretch of beach and you have a great holiday combination.

The temperature in Nice makes the pebble beach a great spot to relax. The waters are warm, clear and inviting and are just a pebbles throw away from neighboring St Tropez and Cannes.

Transport: how to get there and around:
Traveling around France is easy using the impressive, fast rail system. You can get to Nice by train and bus or if traveling from further a field, the International Airport is just 6 km’s from town.  Ferries are also an option, they run to Corsica.
Getting around Nice is easy on foot, it is pleasant to walk around and explore the sights. 

Accommodation: Luxury to budget stays
The internet can offer some of the best information on the cost, range and location of Nice hotels 

Weather
Summertime in Nice can be scorching up to 40 C. Typical climate however can be described as Mild, averaging 15 C. Winter is also mild with lowest temperatures being around 5 C.

Attractions & Events
*Nice holds an annual carnival during the latter half of February. The lavish street parades end with a fabulous fireworks show. 

*During June, the city hold religious processions and prayers for patron saints St John and St Peter.   

*July is for music lovers as the worlds finest Jazz players meet in the city for the Nice Jazz Festival.


