Title: 
Yosemite National Park - A Must For Visitors To The USA

Word Count:
352

Summary:
If, like many others, you are looking for an exceptional and distinctive holiday in the USA that will give you and your family unforgettable memories, Yosemite National Park should be high on your list of destinations. An area of protected natural beauty since 1890, Yosemite National park is situated in the dramatic mountain area of the Sierra Nevada, California.

Yosemite National park is one of the most exciting ways to experience America, with year round activities and a...


Keywords:
yosemite, yosemite national park, national park, yosemite lodging


Article Body:
If, like many others, you are looking for an exceptional and distinctive holiday in the USA that will give you and your family unforgettable memories, Yosemite National Park should be high on your list of destinations. An area of protected natural beauty since 1890, Yosemite National park is situated in the dramatic mountain area of the Sierra Nevada, California.

Yosemite National park is one of the most exciting ways to experience America, with year round activities and an abundant variety of scenery, giving visitors an immense amount of choice and convenience.

Key attractions include Yosemite Valley and Glacier Point, which at certain times of the year gives tremendous views of the area; Tuolumne Meadows, a sub alpine meadow surrounded on all sides by mountains; a museum at Wawona and the Mariposa Grove, famous for its Giant Sequoia trees - the largest and oldest living things on earth.

The variety of things to do at Yosemite National park is also huge: from taking a drive or coach trip up to Glacier Point to see the awe-inspiring panoramic views of Yosemite National Park, to serious hiking, biking and mountain climbing.

The accommodation you choose will naturally depend on what your plans are, so thinking ahead is vital. Day-trippers are welcomed, and Yosemite National Park is accessible from other parts of California. Entrance fees range from free to 20 dollars for a vehicle. You should expect to spend at least four hours in the park.

For a longer trip, Yosemite National Park provides a variety of lodging and camping. Official discounted Yosemite National Park lodging ranges from basic tent cabins with nearby toilet facilities to the more luxurious lodging in The Ahwahnee, a distinctive hotel that is the pride of Yosemite National Park.

You can examine the variety of Yosemite National Park lodging online, and it may be possible to make reservations. Additionally you can find the essentials for your trip: such as Yosemite National Park maps, camping equipment and crucial information on Yosemite National Park's weather.

Yosemite National Park is an inspiring and unique place, so be prepared to find that one visit is nowhere near enough!


