Title: 
Your Honeymoon In Kauai

Word Count:
448

Summary:
Hawaii represents pure beauty and one of the most popular wedding destinations. Finding a Kauai honeymoon destination is an exercise in picking your favorite slice of paradise.


Keywords:
honeymoon, hawaii, wedding, honeymoons, hawaii, marriage, island, islands, koloa


Article Body:
Hawaii represents pure beauty and one of the most popular wedding destinations. Finding a Kauai honeymoon destination is an exercise in picking your favorite slice of paradise.

Your Honeymoon In Kauai

A honeymoon in Hawaii. Can anything be more romantic? Whether you enjoy soaking up the sun while sitting on the beach or hiking up flower covered mountains, Hawaii has activities for all to enjoy. Kauai, one of Hawaii’s less inhabited islands, offers honeymooners a special secluded feel and romantic vibe. Finding the right place to stay can make your honeymoon the most memorable trip you’ll ever take.

Kauai is by no means the largest in the chain of islands that makes up Hawaii. At just 550 square feet, this island has the most deserted shoreline – 45 percent of its beaches are untouched. Snorkeling and private beach time is abundant here, and three of Hawaii’s top golf courses are on Kauai. This island is also home to many different rare species of birds and plants, making it a wilderness lover’s paradise, and the coral reefs beckon those who want to explore underwater.

For places to stay, you have the choice of many top resorts and hotels. One such resort is the Poipu Kai Resort, located between Poipu Beach and Shipwreck Beach. This property offers rentals ranging from economy cottages to full size house rentals for extended or nightly stays. This type of resort is perfect for the honeymooner – as you needn’t come into contact with anyone you don’t want to! Hole up in your cottage, stroll down beautiful Poipu Beach or enjoy the other amenities this resort has to offer. Poipu Kai Resort has been awarded four stars by major hotel ratings systems.

If you prefer the feel of a bed and breakfast, the Poipu Plantation Resort in Koloa can offer you a great honeymoon suite. Called the Alii Suite, this room offers a four poster bed, ocean view and two person whirlpool bath tub among other romantic touches. A fireplace, wet bar and private lanai will make you feel as if you are in Hawaii’s version of heaven. Breakfast is served to you each morning in the common room. Styled after rooms from the Victorian Hawaiian period, this suite is perfect for romance. 

Finding the perfect place to stay in Kauai will make all the difference in your Hawaiian stay. Vacation cottages make the perfect choice for those who would like some seclusion and privacy, while the quaint feel of a bed and breakfast can also enhance the feeling of romance. Enjoy your first vacation together as man and wife, and explore all that the exquisite island of Kauai has to offer.


