Title: 
Your Introduction To Palm Springs, California

Word Count:
595

Summary:
Palm Springs, California is a two-hour drive approximately 100 miles east of the city of Los Angeles in beautiful Riverside County. First inhabited by the Cahill Indians, the name Palm Springs comes from the Indian phrase meaning “The Palm Of God’s Hand”. By 1950, Palm Springs became a getaway resort for the rich and famous. As of the year 2,000, almost 43,000 people resided in this lush area. In the wintertime, this number jumps to almost 75,000 people, with around 27,000 pe...


Keywords:
Palm Springs,California,Coachella Valley,desert,travel


Article Body:
Palm Springs, California is a two-hour drive approximately 100 miles east of the city of Los Angeles in beautiful Riverside County. First inhabited by the Cahill Indians, the name Palm Springs comes from the Indian phrase meaning “The Palm Of God’s Hand”. By 1950, Palm Springs became a getaway resort for the rich and famous. As of the year 2,000, almost 43,000 people resided in this lush area. In the wintertime, this number jumps to almost 75,000 people, with around 27,000 people living in second vacation homes.

Palm Springs lies in the California Desert on the western edge of the Coachella Valley. At 487 feet above sea level and covering 96 square miles, it offers a beautiful view of the impressive Mt. San Jacinto. In addition to natural landmarks, the city offers it’s residents an almost endless number of activities including tennis courts, golf courses, an Olympic sized pool, a dog park, a water park, and trails of all kinds (including bike routes and horseback trails). Palm Springs even has a baseball stadium. Palm Springs is also noted for it’s vast city library and museums.

In addition to these activities, Palm Springs also offers visitors the chance to visit boutiques, art galleries, antique shops, restaurants, and night clubs.

Palm Springs has an unusually warm, dry climate. This is because it is surrounded by the San Jacinto Mountains on the west, the Santa Rosa mountains on the south, and the Little San Bernadino mountains to the north. Although temperatures rise above 100 in the summer, you will still remain comfortable due to the low humidity.

One of the outstanding activities offered by Palm Springs is golf. Palm Springs offers over 30 different golf courses spread throughout it’s vast acreage. It attracts the most prestigious golfers in the world, including Jack Nicklaus. In fact, Palm Springs is the home of the PGA West Jack Nicklaus Tournament Course. This course is the home of the PGA 's Tour Qualifying School. The course is names as one of Golf Magazine’s top 100 golf courses you can play. Other fabulous courses you can try out are the PGA West TCP Stadium Course, Silver Rock Resort (designed by Arnold Palmer), the Palm Desert Resort Country Club, and the Desert Princess Country Club. As you can see, Palm Springs hosts the best of the best when it comes to golf.

When you have had your fill of golf (or if golf is not your thing), Palm Springs offers a multitude of fun, unique activities for you to enjoy. If you feel like taking to the sky, you can enjoy a ride in a colorful hot air balloon, allowing you to view the beautiful vistas of California. For a little more excitement, you can ride in a classic biplane or warbird of the 20’s or 40’s. Imagine the thrill of aerobatic flying with a naval pilot at the controls.

If the sky isn’t your cup of tea, then you can take advantage of the Coachella Valley and the surrounding area. You may wish to take nature hikes in the valley, or take a ride on the breathtaking Palm Springs Aerial Tramway. The tramway is a suspended cable car with a 15-minute ride across the valley each way. If you decide to stay on the ground, horse riding and jeep tours are available.

Palm Springs is a showplace retreat for people of all walks of life. It offers something for everyone, from visitors from other countries, to those just wanting to get away for a while. It offers breathtaking views, as well as the beauty of the city itself.


