The Best Books on Astrology

There are thousands of books available on astrology. Some mini-books on astrology are sold in supermarket checkout lanes. Others are sold in book stores. But most of the books that you see while out on your daily errands are some of the worst books on astrology that you can waste your money on.

These so-called books on astrology are often no more than horoscopes, based on nothing more than sun signs. Some of these books claim to help you with your relationships, while only providing sun sign information. Astrology actually encompasses many factors into your astrological readings, and the sun sign is one small factor of many.

The best books on astrology are those that teach you how to plot your own astrological chart and readings. These books on astrology are the best way to learn how astrology affects your life and teach you how to apply that knowledge to better your life. Below you will find some of the best books on astrology.

The Only Astrology Book You'll Ever Need by Joanna Martine Woolfolk is a great place to start learning about astrology. This book gives you an overview of the various sun signs, as well as other factors such as the moon, your ascendant, and the houses. Additionally, this book on astrology provides extensive charts by birth date to help you create your own personal astrological chart and readings.

Using the information you gathered and the charts you created in the last book on astrology, you can use this next book to predict your future using astrology. This book is called Predictive Astrology: The Eagle and the Lark and is written by Bernadette Brady. This book will help you understand the predictive nature of the planets and houses. Using this information and your astrological birth chart you can easily predict your future using astrology.

You can take this information and apply it to your daily life using the book Financial Astrology by David Williams. This is one of the best books on astrology that actually explains how to use real astrological principles to better an area of your life. This book provides astrological data for past major financial events, as well as outlines how to use real astrological data to predict future financial opportunities and windfalls.

Another of the best books on astrology that can teach you how to interpret real horoscopes is called Aspects in Astrology: A Guide to Understanding Planetary Relationships in the Horoscope by Sue Tompkins. This book explains why newspaper and magazine horoscopes are rarely accurate for most people. Sue Tompkins also arms you with information and charts about how the planets affect your sun sign. Armed with this information you can interpret mundane horoscopes to actually fit your astrological chart, and use them to your benefit.

If, after reading the above books, you are still a little fuzzy as to what the various aspects of an astrological chart are and how they affect you, this is the book for you. The Complete Book of Astrology by Ada Aubin and June Rifkin provides the best explanations of sun signs, houses, planets, planetary movements, the moon, and other aspects of astrology that affect your life.
