Where to Find Books on Astrology

Many books containing horoscopes and the like are readily found. You see them in supermarket checkout lanes and on the shelves of bookstores. But the best books on astrology, those that actually explain all aspects of the art and how to apply them to your life, are harder to find.

The best way to find books on astrology is to visit a New Age or occult shop. When you visit these types of stores you will have two advantages to finding the books on astrology that you need. The first advantage is that these stores will only carry books on real astrology. You will not find mere horoscopes or books of sun signs on the shelves.

The second advantage is that you will have someone to help you find the books on astrology that are best for you. The attendant at the New Age or occult shop can easily point out books for the beginner, books for the avid astrologist, or books for those interested only in astrological concepts. Since books on astrology can be expensive, it is nice to know that you are leaving the store with exactly what you came for.

If you do not have a New Age or occult shop in your area you can find books on astrology on the internet. Doing a search for New Age books on astrology can bring up many online book stores. If you are unsure what you are looking for, you can email the store owner or help desk for information. 

While you can find lots of books on astrology at Amazon.com, it is best to visit websites of e-commerce New Age book stores first. Amazon.com will list hundreds of books on astrology, but not all of them are realistic or helpful. Many of the books will negate to mention aspects other than sun signs. Other books will be strictly horoscopes. 

This is not to say that you cannot find real books on astrology at Amazon. There are many great books available on the website. However, if you are not sure what you are looking for it can be difficult to determine the best books on astrology from the mere entertainment. 

There can be a couple of advantages to buying books on astrology from websites such as Amazon.com and EBay. Sometimes you can find used books on these websites that contain extensive notes from experienced astrologers. These notes can often be extremely helpful in learning the art, and filling in the blanks left by most books on astrology.

The other advantage to buying used books on astrology is that they are significantly less expensive. The best books on astrology are rather large, and can often cost around fifty dollars or more. When you buy these same books used you can often save as much as thirty or forty dollars.

Another way that you can find books on astrology is to visit a large book store such as Barnes and Noble. You will have a better chance of finding books on astrology in these book stores than in smaller book stores. However, you are more likely to find horoscope books than true astrology handbooks on these shelves.
