Only Astrology Book You’ll Ever Need

This is the Publisher’s Statement describing this book: Everyone's favorite astrology book, having sold over 500,000 copies, is now even easier to use with an interactive cd-rom This edition of still includes all of the detailed information about how to cast your own chart the old-fashioned way and, more importantly, how to interpret it once you're finished. But the cd-rom in this new edition allows the reader to cast his or her chart in just a few minutes by inputting the date, time and place of birth into the computer, producing a personalized astrological chart in just a few minutes. Once the reader's chart is created, he or she is directed to the corresponding pages in the book to read further about moon signs, sun signs, ascending signs, placement of the planets in their houses, and much more.

The Library Journal’s opinion of the book is as follows: Although this is not the only astrology book that your library will ever need, it is still a valuable title that should be strongly considered. Woolfolk, the horoscope columnist for Marie Claire and Redbook magazines, has updated her classic guide for the first time in 19 years. Thoroughly covered here are sun signs, moon signs, planets, and the significance of the 12 zodiacal houses, as well as the most recent discoveries in astronomy and 21st-century projections. The author gives an easy, logical way to integrate the interpretations of the sun signs, moon signs, planets, and houses in any given chart, something not easily done or often seen in general astrology books. The book's only shortcoming is its lack of instruction on making a detailed technical chart, which is necessary if one is to cast a complete and accurate horoscope. However, Woolfolk compensates for this by teaching a simplified method that is about 90 percent accurate enough to get a beginner started and includes a bibliography for further instruction. Astronomical tables are included to help cast the simplified chart. A great bargain for the price, this is highly recommended for all astrology collections. 
