Rat

Now remember, in Chinese astrology, the some of the signs have names that we in Western culture might not associate with positive human characteristics. Chief among these might be the sign of the Rat. If you were born in 1936, 1948, 1960, 1972, 1984 or 1996 then you are a Rat!
According to today’s Chinese menu, you are ambitious yet honest,. Prone to spend freely. Seldom make lasting friendships. You are most compatible with Dragons and Monkeys and least compatible with Horses. 

While in the West, we associate rats with sewers, vermin and disease, this animal is viewed a bit differently in the East. The Eastern rat is appreciated for its quick wits and ability to accumulate and hold on to wealth. Rats are a symbol of good luck in the East. It’s a stylish and charming sign in Eastern astrology. It’s sharp and funny will take good care of those it considers its good friends.

While rats are convivial types, they are also shameless promoters of their own agendas. This Sign’s charm and powers of persuasion are often used to their best advantage. Rats are motivated by money and possessions. They’re quick-witted and sharp-tongued and love a good debate.

Rats enjoy being on the outside looking in, as they like to learn by observing. They’re forever observant, always tucking away information in their brains for use at some future time if they need it. Rats don’t like to be bored and are always looking for challenges to keep their already-sharp wits even sharper. 

The Rat’s horoscope for today: You'll have a tendency to exaggerate the smallest difficulty; there'll be the need to see things with objectivity, and then you'll feel more relaxed and, therefore, more efficient. Beware of intoxications, notably by ingestion. Be very cautious and strict in the use of drugs. If your intestines are sensitive, don't let yourself be tempted by the vegetarianism fad; this diet is too rich in cellulose and consequently doesn't suit you. More than ever you'll aim high and you'll concentrate your life forces on the achievement of your professional ambitions.
