Where to Find Real Astrology Readings

Real astrology readings can be very helpful when planning for your future or making a difficult decision. However, real astrology readings are also difficult to find. Although astrology readings are advertised all over the internet and other media, finding real astrology readings can prove to be a tricky venture.

You can find real astrology readings at websites online and by calling 900 numbers. Some of the astrology readings you find online will not be real readings. However, you can find some websites that offer real astrology readings.

The best way to determine if you have found real astrology readings or fakes is by the information requested. The astrologist should ask for your birth date, your birth place, and the time of your birth. Any information that you provide about your background, personality, or personal life will allow the astrologist to fake a reading.

There are better places to find real astrology readings, where you do not have to worry so much about getting a fake. There are two main places that you will easily find real astrology readings. A third option, harder to find, is also available.

The easiest place to find real astrology readings is at psychic fairs and pagan festivals. These events are crawling with those skilled in astrology and other forms of divination. From these practitioners you will receive none of the hype. You will receive some of the most accurate real astrology readings you have ever encountered. You will also find that the prices for these real astrology readings are somewhat less expensive than the readings you will get from phone lines and web sites.

Another place that you can easily find real astrology readings is at new age stores and occult shops. These stores usually have astrologists, tarot readers, and other divination experts available for readings. These are also some of the best astrology readings you will find anywhere. 

There is a great benefit to using an astrology expert in your area found at one of these stores or shops. The fact that they are local means that you can go to them over and over again. When this is possible, you will save a lot of time and money by not having to start from scratch each time you get a reading. You will also save a lot of money, because these astrology experts often charge half what is typically charged at psychic fairs and pagan festivals.

Finally, you can find great real astrology readings through networks of pagan and Wiccan groups and individuals. Often these practitioners are difficult to find. However, if you happen to find one, or know someone who is involved in Wicca or paganism, you can get some of the best astrology readings from these individuals. 

Most often these individuals will charge next to nothing for their services. They also take the art of astrology very seriously, and do not often use it to make money. This means that you will get a very lengthy and accurate astrology reading from these sources.
