Why Typical Horoscopes are not Real Astrology

Horoscopes can be found everywhere. They are in your local newspaper. They are in magazines. Horoscopes are even found at your supermarket. And, surprisingly, many people buy and read these horoscopes thinking that they are accurate.

A great many more people think that astrology as a whole is bunk, due largely to the fact that they recognize that horoscopes are inaccurate most of the time. These horoscopes are said to be prepared by an experienced astrologist. Therefore, people see that the horoscopes are fake and think that it is the same for all astrology. This is how astrology has earned the label of "entertainment" in America.

In truth, horoscopes are terribly inaccurate, and are largely created for entertainment purposes. However, this is not a representation of real astrology. When you think about it, horoscopes cannot possibly be accurate for everyone. If everyone born within the month of May had exactly the same personality and exactly the same events happening in their lives, life would be very boring. Thankfully, everyone born in the month of May is not the same, and this is why horoscopes are not accurate for most people.

Typical horoscopes are created by studying the position of the planets in relation to the sun signs. In other words, typical horoscopes are a partial study of real astrology in which the influence of the planets on a true and absolute sun sign will affect someone with no other astrological influences in their chart. However, this is only a fraction of the study of real astrology. There are many other aspects besides your sun sign that determine your personality at birth and help astrologists to predict your present and future.

Real astrology is used to accurately predict the future and describe the personality of people at birth. When real astrology is used to predict the future, the astrologist begins with a personalized birth chart. Only people born in the exact same place at the exact same time will have the same astrological birth chart.

Real astrology is used to plot the birth chart, using planets and stars well beyond the Sun signs. There are planetary positions, rising ascendants, and the moon to consider as well. This is why real astrology is so accurate.

When the astrological birth chart is used in conjunction with past, current, and inevitable astrological phenomena, the real astrology expert can accurately predict the present and the future of the individual being studied. While the result is much the same as a typical horoscope reading, the real astrology reading will be more accurate and provide more specific information that pertains directly to the reader.

When presented with a typical horoscope, most people are very skeptical about astrology. However, if you can convince them to obtain the expert readings of a real astrology expert you may be able to change their mind. When faced with completely accurate descriptions of the present and future, many people realize that astrology is in fact a real art and science.
