The White Tiger of the West

The White Tiger of the West is the third symbol of Chinese constellations as used in astrology.  It represents the West and the season of Autumn.

The White Tiger is made up of seven Mansions.  They are the Legs, the Bond, the Stomach, the Hairy Head, the Net, Turtle Beak, and the Three Stars.

The Legs mansion is made up of the following Asterisms:  Legs, Outer Fence, Celestial Pigsty, Master of Constructions, the Southern Military Gate, the Flying Corridor, the Auxiliary Road, Wang Liang, and the Whip.  Those in the West would recognize these stars as the constellations Andromeda, Pisces, Cetus, and Cassiopeia.

The Bond Mansion is made up of six Asterisms:  The Bond, the Official in Charge of the Forest, the Official in Charge of Pasturing, the Square Celestial Granary, the Ricks of Grain, and the Great General of Heaven.  The starts that make up this Mansion lie in the modern constellations of Aries, Pisces, Cetus, Fornax, and Andromeda.

The Stomach Mansion contains the following Asterisms.  The Stomach, the Celestial Foodstuff, the Circular Celestial Granary, the Mausoleum, the Celestial Boat, Heap of Corpses, and Stored Water.  All of these stars can be found in Aries, Taurus, Cetus, and Perseus, 

Next in line for the Tiger Mansions is the Hairy Head, made up of the Hairy Head, Celestial River, Moon, Yin Force, Hay, Celestial Meadows, the Rolled Tongue, the Celestial Slander, and the Whetstone.  These stars are in the constellations Taurus, Aries, Cetus, Perseus, and Andromeda.

The Net Mansion is one of the largest, comprising the Net, the Whisper, the Celestial Street, Celestial Tally, the Feudal Kings, the Celestial High Terrace, the Interpreters of Nine Dialects, the Five Chariots, the Pillars, the Celestial Pier, the Pool of Harmony, the Celestial Gate, the Banner of Three Stars, the Imperial Military Flag, and the Celestial Orchard.

The Turtle Beak Mansion is made up of the the Turtle Beak, the Deity in Charge of Monsters, and the Seat Flags asterisms.

Finally, the Three Stars mansion contains the Three Stars, Punishment, Jade Well, Screen, Military Well, Toilet, and Excrement asterisms.


