Traits of the Ox		

Ox is the second sign in the Chinese Zodiac. Like the animal they are named after, Ox people tend to be powerful and steady. Oxen were traditional used to plow fields, and haul heavy loads. They make good work animals because of their dependable and patient attitudes. Ox people are considered the same.

Oxen are hardworking and logical, but they need an peaceful and quiet environment to sift through ideas and feelings in their own mind. 

Not only are Ox people dependable, but they crave dependability and routine. Considered mostly uncreative, Oxen prefer logic and reasoning to emotional appeals.

The Ox is the sign of prosperity through fortitude and hard work. This powerful sign is a born leader, being quite dependable and possessing an innate ability to achieve great things. As one might guess, such people are dependable, calm, and modest. Like their animal namesake, the Ox is unswervingly patient, tireless in their work, and capable of enduring any amount of hardship without complaint.
Ox people need peace and quiet to work through their ideas, and when they have set their mind on something it is hard for them to be convinced otherwise. An Ox person has a very logical mind and is extremely systematic in whatever they do, even without imagination. These people speak little but are extremely intelligent. When necessary, they are articulate and eloquent.
The Ox is not extravagant, and the thought of living off credit cards or being in debt makes them nervous. The possibility of taking a serious risk could cause the Ox sleepless nights.
Ox people are truthful and sincere, and the idea of wheeling and dealing in a competitive world is distasteful to them. They are rarely driven by the prospect of financial gain. These people are always welcome because of their honesty and patience. They have many friends, who appreciate the fact that the Ox people are wary of new trends, although every now and then they can be encouraged to try something new.
It is important to remember that the Ox people are sociable and relaxed when they feel secure, but occasionally a dark cloud looms over such people and they engage all the trials of the whole world and seek solutions for them.

