Traits of Virgo
  
Shy, reserved, and sensitive, Virgo is complex, intellectual, and perfectionist.  Virgos tend to be punctual, organized, and disciplined, and these, on top of the shyness, all lead people to believe that Virgo is also cool and uncaring.  Nothing could be further from the truth, as Virgo is almost as sensitive as Cancer or Pisces. 
  
Shyness tends to hurt the Virgo in relationships.  Some people will confuse shyness with coldness, and assume Virgo wants to be left alone, and keep their distance.  This isn’t necessarily true.  The Virgo wants company, but she’s picky about just who that company will be.  And even then, she will be more comfortable chatting about work or current events than anything personal. 
  
Virgo is ruled by Mercury, which means Virgos are ruled by their head as opposed to their hearts.  They tend towards skills in logic and analysis, making them quite capable scientists, writers, and editors.  When they set out to do something, they set out to be the best. 
  
Unfortunately, the perfectionist strength of Virgo is also her greatest weakness.  Virgos tend to be their own worst critics, beating themselves silly until either they achieve their goal of being the best…or they quit in frustration.  That same critical streak can interfere with relationships, as well, since many partners don’t appreciate the perfectionist criticisms that can come from their Virgo partner.  This means that the few people who manage to break through the Virgo’s shyness and cool exterior are often presented with someone who expects perfection from them, just like they expect from themselves. 
  
Virgos tend to keep a neat and clean house, and are the sign most likely to have an alphabetized CD collection. 
  
Virgos tend to dress in ways that compliment both their shy attitude and their perfectionist outlook.  They don’t wear colors that will draw attention to them, and their clothes will match.  They tend to blend into the crowd. 
  
.  
