Differing Views on Astrology

Astrology is practiced differently throughout the world. Some parts of the world utilize the study of all of the "stars" including the planets, the moon, and the sun. America has been leaning toward use of strictly sun signs over the last several decades as horoscopes have invaded virtually all print media. Other areas of the world, such as China, utilize only the moon cycles in their studies of astrology.

Astrology is also viewed differently throughout the world. Astrology can be a very controversial subject in America. You will find people that think that astrology is completely fake, entertainment only, or absolutely real and reliable. You may even find people who think that astrology is the work of the devil. But in many other parts of the world, astrology is viewed quite differently.

In America, astrology is sometimes used to decide the best time for a wedding or other event. Astrology is sometimes used in daily life by some Americans, although many Americans only regard astrology as entertainment and religiously read their horoscope every week, just to see if it will be right or not. Other Americans disregard astrology all together, and give the art little or no thought whatsoever.

However, in China and India astrology is used on a daily basis to determine what activities should be pursued each day. Certain moon cycles are found to be best for certain types of activities or decisions in China and India. This is not unlike the way that farmers once used the cycles of the moon to determine the best time to plant or harvest. The concept is simply taken beyond the fields and into everyday life.

Astrology is also viewed differently based on religion. Astrology is a large part of religious life in the Eastern world. Paganism, a word that describes all "occult" religions such as Wicca, Druidism, and the Kabala oriented religion started by Alister Crowley, also embrace astrology as a part of religious life. These religions are found in America and throughout Western Europe. 

These religions use astrology in every day decision making. They also use astrology to determine times of "power" or celebration. Many Wiccan and Druidic rites are based on various astrological phenomena, such as the phases of the moon. Kabalistic magicians, practitioners of Alister Crowley's Golden Dawn, also use astrology to determine the best time for rites and rituals.

However, some religions view astrology as evil, or the work of the devil. Both Judaism and some denominations of Christianity have this view of astrology. There are many scriptures in both the old and new testaments of the bible that warn against the study of the stars and divination.

On the other hand, some Christian groups either embrace astrology or fail to regard the study of the skies entirely in their teachings. There are also scriptures in the bible that refer to watching the stars and the skies for signs of the first and second comings of Jesus Christ. Due to these scriptures, some faiths tend to believe that astrology for the use of divination is against the will of God, while the actual study of the stars is actually a good thing.
