Where To Find Astrology

If you have developed an interest in astrology the belief that your personality, relationships, and occurrences is your life are all influenced by the position of cosmic objects at the time of your birth there are a number of sources which can help you gain further information about this interesting topic, as well as how to incorporate astrology into your decisions, plans, and your everyday life.  

While the most important and well-known factor is your astrological zodiac sign, it is better, more complex and more accurate if you also know the date, time, and place of your birth this, which is known as natal astrology, is the foundation by which astrologers make analyses and predictions regarding one's life, personality, and future.  While there are both differences and similarities between the Western zodiac and the Chinese zodiac, the main factors which are taken into account are that Western astrology is based on the solar year, whereas Chinese astrology is based on the lunar year;  and in Western astrology the month sign is the primary factor, whereas in Chinese astrology the year sign is the main factor.  

There is an almost limitless supply of astrology-related information readily available.  For those who have sparked a new interest, the most basic and easiest to understand are the daily horoscopes which can be found in most in-print newspapers and many magazines.  These horoscopes, however, are based on nothing more than one's zodiac sign;  and, as such, are very generalized and "generic."  Even some of those who write these syndicated columns occasionally comment that since they are not personalized to each individual, they usually fall more into the scope of suggestibility that if you "read in your horoscope" that something good or bad will happen, it's likely that actual occurrences will follow in accordance with what you've been led to believe will happen.  Books of the 'My Daily Horoscope' nature can also be found in supermarkets and other stores these, too, are compiled of generalized information based solely on one's zodiac sign.  

A step above these forms of astrology are "personalized readings."  For those who have a serious belief in astrology, these can be considered much more accurate, as they are based on one's own personal information specifically, the location, date, and exact time of one's birth.  Free personalized horoscopes of daily, weekly, or monthly readings can be obtained upon request and by providing these details;  you will then receive these readings in your email inbox.  If you have not already received email advertisements for these astrological readings, there are countless numbers of links to sites where you can put in a request.  

You can also opt for personal consultations and readings from astrologers who have been granted accreditation by the American Federation of Astrologers.  AFA, which can be contacted toll-free at 888-301-7630, and is located in Tempe, Arizona, provides correspondence courses and testing which requires that an individual has gained solid workable knowledge of setting up astrological charts, calculating and interpreting horoscopes, various branches of astrology, etc.  A student who has met the basic standards has the designation AMAFA;  a professional who has gained full comprehensive knowledge of the subject is designated PMAFA.  Before consulting a personal astrologer one should decide what type of information is desired, as many specialize in specific areas, such as finances, relationships, etc.  
