Why Astrology Is Important For You

There are many facets of astrology which add up to it being interesting and important.  Do you have the desire to learn how to understand yourself better, and to understand how aspects of the universe are significant to your own life, your relationships, your personality?  Do you wish to know in advance what you can expect to happen in your life as well as how you have the ability to affect changes which are more desirable to you than to merely "go with the flow"?  If so, gaining a deeper understanding of astrology can lead to all of these benefits, and more and you will likely decide that it is a very good thing indeed to know that your life, everything your life consists of, and your future, are not simply random happenings over which you have no control.

"Know yourself."  Many religions teach this, philosophers spoke of this, even popular books tell of it to know yourself is the number one, basic, most fundamental factor in having a good, successful, happy life.  Knowing yourself who you are, why you are as you are, your motivations and your purposes is the first step in learning to develop your positive qualities and characteristics, as well as learning to overcome and defeat those which are negative, or to channel them into forms which will be more constructive.  

A main point in astrology is learning how all of these factors coincide with Time when such developments and changes will affect you and your life in the most positive manner.  There is a proper or best time for each and every action and learning about astrology will help you to better understand this sense of timing and put it to the best use.  Whether you choose to begin your journey into astrology by means of the generalized horoscopes in your daily newspaper, or by consulting with a professional astrologer for a reading which is personalized solely for you, this is the best way to look at the subject that whatever the readings say for you, it is not a matter of future events which are carved in stone, but rather like a map which beckons you to navigate it with your own personal abilities.  

Your own personal astrologer can greatly assist you in discovering your strengths and how to best use them to affect the course of your life.  This is a part of this subject which too few people are aware that astrology is not about resigning yourself to a ready-made destiny or fate, but a deeper understanding of your own potential.  What a wonderful feeling it will be to not only know what is ahead of you tomorrow, next month, and years from now, but to also come to understand that the actions you take and when you take them can play a large role in the eventual outcome!  

Many people believe that astrology is about predicting the future;  this is unfortunate, for such a simplistic view leaves out the most relevant factor  how each individual reacts and responds to each event in his or her life.  To look at predictions for your future, and to become aware of your own ability to affect positive changes, is an amazing blessing and source of strength!  
