Title: 
3 Reasons Why Suzuki Scooters Are Great

Word Count:
497

Summary:
Ever wonder why Suzuki scooters are very popular in the market? Here are some reasons why a lot of people are very satisfied with their Suzuki scooters.

Excellent Design

Suzuki scooters are known for their stylish designs that come in bold colors like blue, gray and black. It is evident in their sleek bodies and fantastic engines that can provide both a comfortable ride and an exhilarating performance. These scooters have a stepped seat and an adjustable backrest that w...


Keywords:
Suzuki Scooters


Article Body:
Ever wonder why Suzuki scooters are very popular in the market? Here are some reasons why a lot of people are very satisfied with their Suzuki scooters.

Excellent Design

Suzuki scooters are known for their stylish designs that come in bold colors like blue, gray and black. It is evident in their sleek bodies and fantastic engines that can provide both a comfortable ride and an exhilarating performance. These scooters have a stepped seat and an adjustable backrest that will keep the rider comfortable through long distances. Suzuki scooters are also good for two. They have concave floorboards that would give both the rider and the passenger ample leg room. Suzuki scooters also have an impressive suspension as well as an aerodynamic fairing that will provide the rider with a lot of protection from the wind. 

Suzuki scooters also come with a lighted underseat storage compartment as well as three other front compartments that are within the rider’s reach. Not only does it provide comfort during trips, it conveniently stores the rider’s things in strategic locations. The front compartments can hold keys or change that the rider can easily access when he needs it. The underseat compartment can hold bigger items as well as things that he would like to secure.

User-friendly and Efficient

Suzuki scooters have liquid-cooled engines that do not make a lot of noise and can offer strong acceleration. They also use an advanced fuel injection system that can make it easy to steer. Even better, they come with an automatic clutch and v-belt that would produce a smooth and effortless acceleration. It also has a great set of breaks that will never let the rider down. Using this scooter will also lessen gas expenses. It has a mileage of 75 miles per gallon. With the increasing price of gasoline, this should be a very big consideration. 

Durable and Reliable

Most of the people who have used Suzuki scooters are very satisfied. According to these Suzuki users, their scooter has never let them down. Most of their scooters are more than two years old. And, they have traveled a lot of worry-free miles using these vehicles. Aside from a change of tire after around nine months of use, no other repairs have been done on their scooters yet. A lot of users also commended this product for having a very tightly capped oil gasket that does not leak at all. In fact, one user even mentioned that he could take his Suzuki scooter in the living room after use. 

The best thing about Suzuki scooters is the price. With such a fantastic list of qualities, one will find the price too good to be true. It will literally give the customer a bang for his buck. Its 400 cc scooters, for example, cost as low as $6,000 which is very cheap when compared with the prices of other high-end scooters. With their low prices, impressive performance and beautiful designs, what more can one ask for?


