Title: 
3 Tips To Ensure A Safe Car Shipping Transaction

Word Count:
365

Summary:
With the world becoming more and more globalized, there has been a increase in business for car shipping companies to ship all types of vehicles ranging from motorbikes to lorries, trucks etc. Online car sales and car auctions have also contributed to an increase in demand for car shipping services.

As a result, today there is a wide range of car shipping companies to choose from. But how do you go about picking a car shipping service that is suitable for your car? Here ar...


Keywords:
car shipping, cars, vehicle shipping, auto shipping, car shipping companies, international car shipp


Article Body:
With the world becoming more and more globalized, there has been a increase in business for car shipping companies to ship all types of vehicles ranging from motorbikes to lorries, trucks etc. Online car sales and car auctions have also contributed to an increase in demand for car shipping services.

As a result, today there is a wide range of car shipping companies to choose from. But how do you go about picking a car shipping service that is suitable for your car? Here are a few tips to bear in mind.

1. Enclosed Or Not Enclosed

You will need to decide whether your car needs to be enclosed in a container or not during shipping. Generally enclosed containers are more expensive but the advantage is your car will not need to suffer from wind, rain, debris etc during transportation.

I would recommend to use an the enclosed method of transportation if your car is a brand new one or is expensive. An example would be a vintage car or an expensive sports automobile.

2. Shipping Routes

You may need to check with the car shipping company whether they can deliver to your house. Some shipping companies only deliver to major cities and certain pickup locations after which you are expected to go there to collect the car.

Other car shipping companies will charge an additional fee to ship it to your house. So it is important you check with the company before hand the shipping arrangement.

3. Car Inspection

Most car shipping companies will have a car inspection checklist before and after the car is shipped. You want to go through that checklist and make sure your condition of the car is checked correctly before shipping.

You can take your time to inspect the car after it has been shipped to check for any damages to your car.

5. Car Shipping Insurance

You may want to check with the car shipping companies on the shipping insurance coverage on your car and the cost involved. Most car shipping companies include insurance in the total shipping cost but some don’t and will require an additional charge. So make sure you know the insurance coverage and the cost if needed.


