Title: 
7 Hard Saddlebags For Motorcycles

Word Count:
418

Summary:
The market for hard saddlebags may have shrunk but there are still some manufacturers who continue to manufacture stylish bags. These manufacturers even offer matching brackets so that you can install the saddlebag with ease.

If you are looking for a hard saddlebag then you should look for three features: the bags should be waterproof, should be lockable and detachable. You should also be careful about the size of the bag. Often, the size may be misleading. This is because...


Keywords:
used cars,buying automobiles,selling automobiles,used bikes


Article Body:
The market for hard saddlebags may have shrunk but there are still some manufacturers who continue to manufacture stylish bags. These manufacturers even offer matching brackets so that you can install the saddlebag with ease.

If you are looking for a hard saddlebag then you should look for three features: the bags should be waterproof, should be lockable and detachable. You should also be careful about the size of the bag. Often, the size may be misleading. This is because the hard bags, unlike soft bags, are not expandable, and have stiff internal lining that reduces storage area.

Here is a brief outline of hard saddlebags:

1. AUBURN LEATHER LEGEND BAGS: These bags come in two styles: bolt-on and throw-over, and are made of black American cowhide. They are classy looking with lock-stitched and stress-riveted seams and zinc-plated steel rivets. They have a hard back and their interiors are reinforced with ABS and HDPE plastic. The size of these bags is 12 inches by 13.5 inches by 6 inches.

2. BOSS BAGS: The Boss Bags are made of premium leather with heavy plastic reinforcing in the interiors. They are available in plain black leather or with trimmings. They have lockable lids and quick-release buckle straps. Each bag comes with a fiberglass mounting system.

3. PATRIOT HARDBAGS: These bags are known for their sleek styling and high-quality fit. They are 26 inches by 9.5 inches by 14.5 inches with a 35-liter capacity. Their side-mounting units are made of fiberglass. An additional feature is a watertight gasket seal that keeps rain water from entering.

4. CORBIN BEETLE BAGS: These bags are made according to the shape of motorcycles. This gives them a unique fit, and look. They are made of Fibertech and have a smooth finish. Their sizes may vary but their capacity is around 30 liters per bag.

5. GIVI LUGGAGE CRUISER: Givi’s bags, also known as Cruiser bags, are made of polypropelene. They are 16.7 inches by 13.7 inches by 7.7 inches with a capacity of 21 liters. They have side-mounting units and are sold as a pair. They are very light and come in a variety of finishes.

6. NATIONAL CYCLE CRUISELINER SADDLEBAGS: These bags are made from a high-density polymer that makes them dent-resistant. They normally have high-gloss black finish, but custom color matching is also possible. The size of these bags is 24.5 inches by 14 inches by 7.5 inches.

7. SADDLEMEN DESPERADO SADDLEBAGS: These hard bags come with inner stiffeners that maintain their shape even when the bags are empty. They come in several shapes, with each shape meant for a specific bike model.


