Title: 
9 Soft Saddlebags For Motorcycles

Word Count:
524

Summary:
Soft saddle bags are popular because they are pliable, easier to lug around and very spacious. There are a large number of soft saddlebags available in the market which makes selection difficult. Here’s a shortlist of some of the good bags:

1. Chase Harper European Tour Saddlebags: These are made of Cordura, are water-tight and have 34 quart capacity. Their important features are: attachment around the rear and at the footpegs, a frame tube with quick-release action, hard ...


Keywords:
used cars,buying automobiles,selling automobiles,used bikes


Article Body:
Soft saddle bags are popular because they are pliable, easier to lug around and very spacious. There are a large number of soft saddlebags available in the market which makes selection difficult. Here’s a shortlist of some of the good bags:

1. Chase Harper European Tour Saddlebags: These are made of Cordura, are water-tight and have 34 quart capacity. Their important features are: attachment around the rear and at the footpegs, a frame tube with quick-release action, hard plastic at the bottom and front, removable plastic exhaust guards, soft nylon backing to prevent scuffing and double nylon handles joined by wraparound leather 

2. Dry Bag Saddlebags: These are made of pliable non-porous plastic, are Cordura lined and can roll up like a paper sack. They have hard plastic bag stiffeners, an attachment around the rear and at the footpegs , quick-release buckles on nylon straps and a hard plastic backing 

3. Eclipse Dodge Slant Cruiser Bags: They have a nylon body, faux leather top flap and real leather straps and trims. They are highly functional and compact, have rigid inner support panel, soft tricot mesh on the surface facing the bike as well as under the wide seat yoke. They need saddlebag support frames for proper attachment 

4. Hondaline Saddlebags: These bags are made of nylon and foam panels and are water proof. They have a top that opens, are easy to pack and carry and can be attached to the bike using a nylon strip. 

5. OSI Deluxe Nylon Saddlebags: These bags are made of Cordura and are open at the top. They have a large external pocket and a zipper with nylon tabs for easier pulling. The main compartments of the bags are lined with nylon and stiff plastic. The bags also have a flexible foam support on the side walls. They have four detachable anchor points and rugged Cordura handles for easy carrying

6. Rev-Pack Deluxe Saddle Packs: They are made of heavy urethane-coated Cordura 
lined with sealed nylon. In addition, there is a lining of foam between the two plies for insulation and stability. The front flap is large and stiff. The bags can be moved up or down using the harness system that runs over the rear seat

7. RKA Standard Saddlebags: These bags have 22.5 quarts capacity, solid mounting and come with dual straps that tighten down across the seat. The zips open like a suitcase. They have adjustable retaining straps and synthetic sheepskin finish.

8. Roadgear Jumbo Expedition Bags: These bags have 40.8 quarts capacity and are made of 1000-denier Cordura Plus fabric with expanding panels. The bags have nylon-loop straps for the rear footpegs, a quick-release nylon tail strap and can be easily levelled with the passenger seat or raised above.

9. Teknic Saddlebags: These bags are made of 420-denier nylon, are PVC-coated and have a capacity of 35.2 quarts.  A wide hook-and-loop yoke over the seat is used to join the saddlebags that have a four-point quick-release system to secure the bags to the bike. They also have an additional common strap for carrying the bag over the shoulder. 
a wraparound zipper and two adjustable quick-release straps. A spiral-type zipper system helps release additional inches of cargo space.


