Title: 
Accessories For The Motorcycle Helmet

Word Count:
410

Summary:
Gary has a Harley Davidson chopper at home. This took almost a year to assemble since the parts were purchased from different suppliers. Now that it is almost complete, the only thing to do will be to get the right motorcycle helmet.

The motorcycle dealer only sold bright colored helmets. After fitting this and checking it for any defects, Gary chose the yellow one since this is the most visible during the day and at night.

Gary was not happy with the helmet being in ju...


Keywords:
motorcycle helmets, motorcycle


Article Body:
Gary has a Harley Davidson chopper at home. This took almost a year to assemble since the parts were purchased from different suppliers. Now that it is almost complete, the only thing to do will be to get the right motorcycle helmet.

The motorcycle dealer only sold bright colored helmets. After fitting this and checking it for any defects, Gary chose the yellow one since this is the most visible during the day and at night.

Gary was not happy with the helmet being in just one shade. To make this better, this person thought of either putting stickers or having this custom painted. Given that it will be another 4 to 5 years that this will have to be replaced, the owner decided to have it painted.

The local shop was able to make the changes after 2 weeks. Since it was very sunny where Gary lived, there was a need to buy other accessories.

One of the most important things that had to be purchased was a visor. Gary preferred to get the detachable kind to protect this person from the brightness of the sun and debris, which may come toward the biker.

Gary also replaced this strap to hold the helmet in place. This person believed that the two-ring type that is able to hold better than the one made of Velcro. The bike owner got this idea after reading a safety report in a magazine which said the head gear could come off if this isn’t fastened securely while cruising fast or suddenly breaking on the road.

A month after changing a few accessories on the helmet, Gary was ready to hit the open road. This person not only traveled on short trips but also used this for traveling from one town to the next.

Many people admired the changes that were made by Gary. This person did not boast about it and just accepted the compliments humbly and said this can be done by anybody. All the biker has to do is use one’s imagination and make it happen. Those that need a little guidance should watch other riders or read up on magazines to find it.

Gary did not pick accessories for the helmet so that people can give compliments. This person did it to express this biker’s individuality. The owner felt this was the only way to feel safe and cool at the same time whenever getting on the road with the bike.


