Title: 
All Terrain Vehicles Make Hitting The Trails Easy And Fun

Word Count:
406

Summary:
As urban sprawl and suburban growth continue to crowd us more and more, the allure of open trails and roads less traveled becomes more and more appealing. While hiking and cycling offer a needed respite to many, others are drawn to the power, speed, versatility, and fun offered by all terrain vehicles. Unlike motorcycles, all terrain vehicles (ATV’s) sit on three or four wheels, and are easy enough for almost anyone to operate. Further, all terrain vehicles are easy to unders...


Keywords:
All Terrain Vehicles


Article Body:
As urban sprawl and suburban growth continue to crowd us more and more, the allure of open trails and roads less traveled becomes more and more appealing. While hiking and cycling offer a needed respite to many, others are drawn to the power, speed, versatility, and fun offered by all terrain vehicles. Unlike motorcycles, all terrain vehicles (ATV’s) sit on three or four wheels, and are easy enough for almost anyone to operate. Further, all terrain vehicles are easy to understand once you know a few simple basics. 

Technically speaking, an all terrain vehicle is a small, open, three or four wheeled vehicle that is designed for off road travel.  Those in the market for an ATV will quickly notice the paucity of three-wheeled versions on the market. Due to safety reasons – the three-wheelers had a tendency to tip over easily – only four-wheeled all terrain vehicles were legally produced from 1987 to 1997. Although it is again legal to produce the three-wheelers, very few have been produced. 

Aside from the wheel configuration, all terrain vehicles can be divided into two distinct camps: sport models and utility models. Utility models are generally designed to haul small loads on racks or on attached trailer beds. While they may have an engine displacement similar or identical to a sport models, they are designed for more power and less speed. Sport models, on the other hand, are smaller, lighter, and faster, than their utility counterparts. Able to reach speeds as high as 90 miles per hour, some sport models are faster than many full sized cars. 

With all that speed – literally at your fingertips – owners and operators of all terrain vehicles need to remember to put safety first. With engines as large as 800cc’s, these vehicles can be extremely powerful and they can accelerate quickly, making it easy to tip them over. While driving an ATV can be fun, functional, and exhilarating, it can be dangerous as well. Each year there are thousands of injuries, and hundreds of deaths, related to all terrain vehicles. 

Despite the dangerous track record, all terrain vehicles can be safe and fun for those who follow basic safety precautions. With precautions in place all terrain vehicles provide a fun and fuel efficient way to hit the road, trail, or even hauling things around the farm. Lightweight, easy to store, fast, powerful, and fun; all terrain vehicles have earned their popularity through their utilitarian and recreational qualities.


