Title: 
All The Secrets Of American Car Auctions

Word Count:
421

Summary:
This article will discuss the American car auction, offering tips, advice, insights, and other things we have learnt during our experiences at car auctions. 

First of all, when you have found your desired car auction, obviously it will be an American car auction, so it will be a car auction based in one of the areas in America. You will have a test drive period, during this phase, which we like to call the first phase of the auction, you will be invited to test drive the c...


Keywords:
american car auctions, car auctions


Article Body:
This article will discuss the American car auction, offering tips, advice, insights, and other things we have learnt during our experiences at car auctions. 

First of all, when you have found your desired car auction, obviously it will be an American car auction, so it will be a car auction based in one of the areas in America. You will have a test drive period, during this phase, which we like to call the first phase of the auction, you will be invited to test drive the cars what are currently being auctioned.

We suggest that if you are interested in bidding on one of the cars on show, now is the opportunity to find out what the car is really like. You will be invited to drive any of the care, once you have chosen the car you wish to drive, assuming you have your driving licence, head on to the office or reception; there is normally a main place at each car auction to get the car keys.

During the american car auction, you will likely be giving ticket numbers if you are bidding and then you will be seated. After this phase, you will then watch the cars that are available for auction come through.  This is probably one of the best phases in the auction, you get to sit back and watch the cars come through, and however, they will be driven through one at a time. 

Bidding on the cars at the American car auction

This is hen the auctioneer will start, “ so who is going to start the bidding cycle, starting bid of $800, any bids, from here, people will place a bid, if they do not, the auctioneer will gown a hundred or so. Until there is a balance between the right price and people being interested the auctioneer will work with this o best of his/her ability.

Winning the car or cars

Once you have won the car, you will be given a ticket number, you will also likely have a ticket from being a bidder; present both of these to the main reception. You will then be offered a method of payment. The full balance for the car will be due the next in full amount. Most people pay by visa or credit card for the car they have won, they are then given the keys and are allowed to take the car away with them that day. You will be responsible for your own insurance however on each car you win.


