Title: 
American Roll Tonneau Cover Review

Word Count:
539

Summary:
This tonneau cover was designed and built to fit your specific make, model and year pickup truck. Made in the USA by a man “with a working mans PHD”

Truck Covers USA boasts this retractable tonneau cover to have the smallest canister on the market sizing in at 8”x 8”.They say that this truck bed cover has double- walled panels and can support over 500 pounds. That’s a whopping quarter ton plus.

The American roll is tension driven and has stop and lock points at every 12...


Keywords:
American Roll  tonneau cover review, tonneau cover, truck bed cover, tonneau cover reviews.


Article Body:
This tonneau cover was designed and built to fit your specific make, model and year pickup truck. Made in the USA by a man “with a working mans PHD”

Truck Covers USA boasts this retractable tonneau cover to have the smallest canister on the market sizing in at 8”x 8”.They say that this truck bed cover has double- walled panels and can support over 500 pounds. That’s a whopping quarter ton plus.

The American roll is tension driven and has stop and lock points at every 12 inches which comes in handy when carrying different loads. It has a textured black powder coat finish which is very tough and durable.

Dirt is kept out of the side rails and canister with the aid of high quality automotive grade wool and brushes. This is where some retractable tonneau covers have a problem.

This is a clamp on tonneau cover with a minimum drilling of holes for the drain tubes of the canister as is for other retractable tonneau covers. They say it can be installed within 2 hours. From what I read it can be any where from a half hour to three and a half hours. Truck covers USA designed and manufactured the clamps themselves especially for this cover. This cover is backed by a 2 year warranty which is a real plus for a retractable tonneau cover. I must say, this is a nice looking tonneau cover.

People who have installed this cover said they have done it quite easily. It only takes a few common tools. You may need some help lifting the canister into place but after that the rest should be a breeze. If you have a bed liner you will probably have to make some cuts in the liner where the clamps need to go and again at the tailgate where the lock of the tonneau cover ends up. No big problem though. If you open and close the cover a lot you may find having to unlock the cover a bit of a pain. This cover locks automatically. It’s great for a fifth wheel. A quite of few people have commented on how strong the cover is.

As is with other retractable tonneau covers you may get slight leakage with a lot of water. I must say that this has to be my favorite manual retractable tonneau cover. Lets just go over some of the good points. It will save you gas - it will deter thieves by keeping things out of sight out of mind not to mention the added locking system which is one of the better locks on tonneau covers today – the American roll will allow you to use your truck bed for tall loads without removing the cover – Easy installation – the cover will stop every twelve inches to accommodate your load - It comes with a 2 year warranty.

Now some of the negative points. May have slight leakage in heavy rain – You need to unlock the cover every time you use it – If you have a bed liner you may have to cut small sections of it for the clamps.

Now you decide if the American Roll tonneau cover is the cover you want for your truck bed and to protect your belongings.


