Title: 
What You Should Know About Motorcycle Helmet Visor

Word Count:
418

Summary:
Having a helmet on when riding a motorcycle is just one of the things that the person needs to protect the head when one is cruising along the road. The individual will soon discover that having a visor is important because this can protect the eyes from wind, dust, dirt, rain, insects and debris that may be thrown from the vehicle ahead.

There are two types of visors that can be purchased for the helmet. The first is the detachable kind while the other is already built in...


Keywords:
motorcycle helmets, helmet visor


Article Body:
Having a helmet on when riding a motorcycle is just one of the things that the person needs to protect the head when one is cruising along the road. The individual will soon discover that having a visor is important because this can protect the eyes from wind, dust, dirt, rain, insects and debris that may be thrown from the vehicle ahead.

There are two types of visors that can be purchased for the helmet. The first is the detachable kind while the other is already built in. The one needed will really depend on the road conditions one faces everyday and the type of bike one is using.

For instance, motorbikes that have a windshield will only need the type that will protect the eyes. Those who don’t should probably get the face shield type since this will provide cover for the entire face.

Most of the visors out in the market are made of plastic. The individual should probably choose the kind that is transparent and not tinted since this could pose a problem when riding the motorcycle at night.

It is also a good idea to choose the kind that allows air to pass through inside so that it will not fog.

People who prefer the transparent one should find a helmet that is big enough to accommodate the sunglasses one will be using especially when it is sunny outside. The pair worn should be shatterproof and free of scratches since could also pose problems when keeping an eye on the road.

The person does not have to buy the same brand of visor as the helmet. There are some available that have made this compatible with any. All the customer will have to do is choose which model and the color of the shield. These are usually available in black, white or smoke.

The average price of a visor in the market today is less than $20 a piece. The individual can check out the local sporting goods store or order this item online.

Riding a motorcycle is considered to be much more dangerous than driving a car. Studies have shown the number of those injured has gone up by 12% in the past year.

Should the person still want to feel the thrill of having the wind pass from the front of the motorcycle to the back, it is advisable to invest in a visor. This small accessory could be the only thing protecting the individual against dirt or debris coming towards the biker.


