Title: 
What Are The Cheapest Options To Ship A Car

Word Count:
386

Summary:
There are many reasons why you need a car shipping service. For example, you are migrating to another part of the country or overseas, you brought a car from ebay motors and need it shipped to you or maybe you are going on a vacation and decide to bring your car along with you.

Nowadays, there are plenty of car shipping companies that provide different options for shipping a car. The prices also varies due to distance, mode of transportation and accessibility as well.

T...


Keywords:
car shipping, cars, vehicle shipping, auto shipping, car shipping companies, international car shipp


Article Body:
There are many reasons why you need a car shipping service. For example, you are migrating to another part of the country or overseas, you brought a car from ebay motors and need it shipped to you or maybe you are going on a vacation and decide to bring your car along with you.

Nowadays, there are plenty of car shipping companies that provide different options for shipping a car. The prices also varies due to distance, mode of transportation and accessibility as well.

The two most common car shipping options are getting someone to drive it for you or transporting your vehicle via a large car carrier truck.

There are pros and cons to both methods of car transportation.

Method 1 : Getting someone to drive it for you

There are some shipping companies who can provide people to help drive your car to your destination. The cost will depend on the distance. Usually, the cost of petrol will be included in the shipping fee but calculated on a per mile basis. Reputable car shipping companies will also have car insurance policy in the event the car is damaged or met with an accident during the journey.

This type of car shipping is the cheapest but however you have to bear in mind the wear and tear of your vehicle particularly for long distance travelling. Also some people may not feel comfortable letting an unknown person drive their car since you do not know how they are going to drive your car. If that is the case for you, you can choose the second option.

Method 2 : Car Transport Via Car Carrier

The second method of car shipping uses a large car carrier truck to transport your car. Usually, they will be 8 or 9 other cars on the same carrier truck. By using this method, your car will arrive at your destination intact with no wear and tear.

However, the cost is more expensive than method 1. Usually it will cost $400 to $500 more. The car shipping company will also provide car insurance and a checklist before and after the car is transported.

I would recommend the second method if you have a new car to be transported or your car is expensive since I am sure you want it to be as intact as possible when you collect the car.


