Title: 
You Don't Ever Have To Get Lost Again With New Auto Navigation Systems.

Word Count:
456

Summary:
I was checking out a friend's new car a couple weeks ago when I noticed that he had one of those cool auto navigation systems in it. I had seen those things in rental cars before, but hadn't actually known of anyone that had one. I asked him to take me out for a ride so I could see how it worked. Since he wanted to show off his new wheels anyway, he quickly agreed.

I kept my eyes on the auto navigation system the entire time we were on the road. My friend excitedly explain...


Keywords:
auto navigation systems,GPS auto navigation system


Article Body:
I was checking out a friend's new car a couple weeks ago when I noticed that he had one of those cool auto navigation systems in it. I had seen those things in rental cars before, but hadn't actually known of anyone that had one. I asked him to take me out for a ride so I could see how it worked. Since he wanted to show off his new wheels anyway, he quickly agreed.

I kept my eyes on the auto navigation system the entire time we were on the road. My friend excitedly explained how the thing worked. Apparently, he had purchased a top of the line GPS auto navigation system that tracked the car's position using satellite. I watched the map closely, and sure enough, it was as correct as could be.

I mean, we would pass a landmark out on the side of the road while the on screen map was showing the exact same thing. I asked my friend how easy it was to find new locations using these auto navigation systems. He said all he had to do was type in an address or phone number using the touch screen menu, and the shortest route would appear within seconds.

I decided there and then that I had to check out some auto navigation systems for my own car. When I got home, I immediately logged onto the Internet to do a bit of research. I still didn't know very much about these devices, so I wanted to read a few auto navigation system reviews before spending my money. I wanted to know which brands packed the most features into each unit, which brands had the best prices, and which brands had the most favorable consumer reviews. I was able to find all of this information quickly and easily, which made shopping for an auto navigation system as peacefully as I could have hoped.

After I was satisfied that I knew enough about auto navigation systems to make an informed decision, I went ahead with my purchase. I was even able to find a website that specializes in selling auto navigation systems for much less than the retail price. I got a fantastic deal on the model I wanted, and ended up saving hundreds of dollars.

I've only had my auto navigation system installed for a short time, but it's already helped me out quite a bit. I've been able to avoid traffic, find shorter routes to the places I visit regularly, and save me money by alerting me to alternative exits when I'm driving on tollways. All in all, I can't imagine ever driving without one of these auto navigation systems to guide me when I'm out on the road.


