Title: 
Your Old Car Can Be As Good As New With 9006 HID

Word Count:
505

Summary:
Let your 1998 Lexus GS sport be a superstar and dazzle. A pair of 9006 HID headlamps will do the trick. Go get your conversion kit and coast around town, but be sure to care for your HID bulbs.

It’s your car’s turn for a makeover

When your car’s headlights are eclipsed by brighter lights, it’s time for a change. Your nine-year-old car can once again regain its former glory. Just opt for a purplish or greenish glow and you’re all set. A 9006 HID kit will make your car’s ...


Keywords:
9006 HID


Article Body:
Let your 1998 Lexus GS sport be a superstar and dazzle. A pair of 9006 HID headlamps will do the trick. Go get your conversion kit and coast around town, but be sure to care for your HID bulbs.

It’s your car’s turn for a makeover

When your car’s headlights are eclipsed by brighter lights, it’s time for a change. Your nine-year-old car can once again regain its former glory. Just opt for a purplish or greenish glow and you’re all set. A 9006 HID kit will make your car’s makeover easy. In the muscle department, your 9006 HID bulb was designed to cope with wear and tear, water, and earthquake. In the looks section, the light has been tested for true color. On the speed ticker, the bulbs can respond immediately to rapid on and off switching.

Your kit will contain two 9006 HID Xenon bulbs, two 9006 HID 35W Ballasts, 2 steel HID ballast harnesses, and four steel screws. The ballast is a showcase of German and Japanese hardware – Siemens and Panasonic. There is no cut and splice here. Once installed, plug it in and you’re good to go.

But nothing lasts forever, even your car

When you have installed your 9006 HID follow these simple reminders if you want your HID lamps to last longer:

• Use only approved ballasts or your HID bulb will peter out soon.

• Cool down before you turn the bulb on and off.

• Correct your burn position or plane. Have the headlamps checked if they are direct on the pinch. It is recommended that you have horizontal burn positioning to avoid overheating.

• In handling the systems, be sure your hands are free from grease or dirt as these will affect the UV shield and the burner.

• Be sure that your 9006 bulb fits into your headlight housing. If the housing is too small, it may cause the bulb to overheat. If it is too loose, vibrations may damage the bulbs.

As a precaution, get an experienced mechanic to install the system. He has the right tools and the experience. Unless you have the skill and the know-how, you shouldn’t try installing your 9006 HID kit by yourself.

Glimmer while the going is hot

When you’ve got it, flaunt it. Your 9006 HID bulbs will show off its beam. You can offset the glare too by correcting your beam pattern. Drive around town or to the next state. No cop will be after you because you 9006 HID headlamps are street legal.

You can also have the interiors of your car lighted up with precision-engineered HID bulbs. The same HID technology will work well to provide you better illumination, so inside and out, you can see your way very well.

Your 1998 Lexus GS will be at par with other newer cars on the night road. Have your car tuned-up and oiled regularly for better performance. Have the brakes checked too. Enjoy your car’s total performance for all time driving. Just make sure you get a full warranty for your 9006 HID headlamps.


