Title: 
Your Opportunities For Car Donation In Portland

Word Count:
525

Summary:
If you are a Portland area resident who is facing the decision of what to do with an old, but still functioning automobile, you may be able to turn it into a tax benefit by making a car donation in Portland. As long as you donate it to an Internal Revenue Service recognized charity, you will be guaranteed a minimum write-off of $500.00m and it could be significantly higher if the charity sells it for more. The best part is that Portland is home to many charities which will ac...


Keywords:
Car Donation Tn, Making A Car Donation, Car Donation


Article Body:
If you are a Portland area resident who is facing the decision of what to do with an old, but still functioning automobile, you may be able to turn it into a tax benefit by making a car donation in Portland. As long as you donate it to an Internal Revenue Service recognized charity, you will be guaranteed a minimum write-off of $500.00m and it could be significantly higher if the charity sells it for more. The best part is that Portland is home to many charities which will accept donated cars, and even pick them up.

Portland Charities

If you’d like an idea of what the charities to which you can make a car donation in Portland are, there are a few which stand out. The Oregon Food Bank is responsible for supplying food to over eight hundred food assistance programs throughout Oregon. Your car donation in Portland to the Oregon Food bank will assist needy families not only n the Portland area all over the state.

Portland Impact will happily take your car donation in Portland and use the proceeds from its sale to provide financial assistance to those dealing with homelessness and job loss, or to supply senior citizens and disabled adults with various services. They will accept any car donation in Portland as long as the vehicle has no major damage and does not require significant mechanical work. In addition, the car’s book value must be at least $70 to cover the cost of processing it. They will pay for towing your car.

If you’re a Portland resident, making a car donation in Portland to Portland Impact is one way of assuring that the benefits of your generosity will help your neighbors.

Let's take a look at these foundations in Portland that are indeed recognized by the IRS and which will entitle you to tax deductions whenever you will decide to assign to them your used vehicles.

If you make your car donation in Portland to the United Way of Mid Willamette Valley, you’ll be helping a broad-based charitable effort which offers assistance to the homeless, those seeking employment, or in need of food, the very young and the elderly.

How Your Car Donation In Portland Will Be Used

Some of the charities which will accept your car donation in Portland may opt to keep it and use it in performing their work; others may choose to auction it off and use the proceeds to fund their work. In either case, you’ll receive a tax deduction either for the vehicles book value or its sales price, and you’ll have the joy of knowing, whenever you hear of the good work being done by your charity, that your car donation in Portland helped it happen!

Giving to charity is a good way to help in the community. In Portland, there are many people who need assistance. Giving a car donation in Portland will make a considerable impact. This will help get people where they need to go and will help charities organize events they can get to without having to rent a car or buy one themselves.


