A couple of tips to prevent yeast infection

It’s not that difficult really. There are a number of simple and easy to follow ways in preventing yeast infection. You don’t have to make things as complicated as they sound. Simple, straight to the point prevention tips as well as solutions or cure can help make your life a lot easier and a lot comfortable compared to having a yeast infection. A couple of tips to prevent yeast infection are to follow so sit tight and continue reading. 

Yeast infection results from the increase growth of the fungi Candida. The fungus is present in most of us so there’s no actual ways of preventing contact with the said bacteria. However, what you can avoid is having contact with a moist environment. Fungus grows well in a warm, most environment, and Candida is not an exception. 

Among the things that you better avoid in order to prevent the full development of the infection includes wet clothing especially bating suits. These are quite obvious since we just mentioned that fungus likes growing in warm and wet environment. Tight fitted pants, most especially jeans are a no-no. You should avoid leotards and spandex as well. The tight contact of the clothes to your skin prevents the area to breathe. The close skin contact also might cause some uncomfortable feelings and also trigger some reactions worsening the situation. 

Nylon material on your underwear is also a good thing to avoid. Cotton would be ideal choice being clean and has a fabric that allows breathing space. Likewise, avoid pantyhose. Or you really want to wear pantyhose, just wear cotton underwear underneath. 

Other tips that we suggest cover your personal hygiene. Keeping yourself clean especially down there is something that all women should do. Keeping your vagina clean and dry  after you take a bath or a shower will help prevent the unnecessary growth of the Candida fungus. If you’re accustomed in using deodorant napkins, perfumed tampons, or other feminine hygiene products that have been colored or perfumed, start avoiding them right away. Stick with the all natural stuff. It’s better for you, for the environment, and especially better for me. 

If you have a pretty active sex life, be sure to insist using condoms. Although yeas infection is not a sexually transmitted disease, having safe sex is just a good advice. Okay, let’s move on shall we?

Normally medicines should be good for you but in order to prevent yeast infection, it is best to avoid antibiotics since this will upset the balance of microorganism in your body favoring the growth of the Candida fungus. Unless prescribed by your doctor, stay away from antibiotic pills for a while. 

Also, foods high in carbohydrates and sugar are a source of food for the yeast as well. So unless you want to keep feeding your yeast something that will help it grow, then you better stick with some fresh foods like vegetables and fruits for a while. Also, in eating your food, it has been recommended to eat fresh fruits and vegetables separately from cooked food. When you combined cooked and fresh, the food will tend to ferment in your stomach. The fermented food will harbor the growth of more bacteria aside from the fungus that you already have.

The more you should learn t control your food intake if you are diabetic. Monitoring and keeping the appropriate amounts of sugar level is a good way to keep you healthy as well as keep the fungus at bay. 

These are but a few tips to prevent yeast infection. As you move along your research, you will get to know more about the techniques that can be used to avoid yeast infection as well as other methods that would help you cure the infection, in case you already have one. 
