A step ahead, preventing yeast infection

There are a lot of ways to avoid yeast infections. With just observing some basic hygiene and healthy lifestyles, you can avoid the embarrassment, anxiety and even anguish that are brought about by having an infection. That is why we emphasize the advantage of knowing and applying the different ways in preventing yeast infection. It is better to be prepared now than suffer the consequences later. 

Several experts on the subject have recommended a number of procedures for preventing the overgrowth of yeast in our body. From changing your diet to adapting several health preferences, one can decrease the chance of having a massive growth of yeast. 

Among the first advices would be maintaining a clean body. Yeast loves areas that are most. The more you tolerate having these areas, the more chance you’ll have an infection in your hands. So it would be a good idea to keep the vaginal area dry whenever possible. This includes after you had a swim, had a rigorous exercise, or had taken a shower. Dry the area thoroughly. Take off wet clothing immediately. You never want to give the yeast an opportunity to grow. 

Speaking of clothes, a better chance of preventing such an infection would be to wear clothes that are made from light materials and provides enough ventilation. There’s a higher chance that the yeast grow excessively in the vaginal area due to wearing tight pants, jeans and other pieces of clothing. It would be better to wear cotton made clothes to allow the skin to breathe and helps with the prevention of yeast overgrowth. Cotton panties would be a better choice than nylon and lycra since the latter two can trap air which is an ideal environment for yeast growth. Panty hoses are also not recommended unless you wear cotton underwear underneath.

Maintain a healthy and clean body. That is a basic necessity and should be observed whether you have or don’t have an infection. Washing your heads every time you go to the bathroom would be a good start. Also be aware that scented tissues, pads or tampons, feminine spray products, and even deodorants can cause irritation to the vagina and can in turn increase the growth of yeast in the area resulting to a full yeast infection. And definitely avoid using douches since it washes away the natural protective membrane of the vagina. This leaves the vagina more susceptible to, not only yeast, but other infections as well. 

Moreover, petroleum-based lubricants should be avoided during sexual intercourse. Water-based lubricants are a better option since it does not trigger the overgrowth of yeast in the vagina area. 

Sugary foods might also trigger the growth of yeast. It would be a good idea then to watch your sugar intake. According to studies, yeast tends to grow faster with a higher level of sugar in the blood and in the digestive system. You might need to avoid sugary foods but plain yogurt is good for you. Yogurt contains microorganisms that help balance out the growth of yeast. It contains “friendly” bacteria so to speak. A cup a day of plain yogurt might help prevent the growth of yeast. 

Prevention is definitely a great move against yeast infections. If more women learn to adapt a lifestyle that is not ideal for yeast growth, then they will have no problems with the physical stress as well as emotional effects the infection brings. Simple, small actions can do wonders in preventing yeast infection. 
