Be aware of the various symptoms of yeast infection

Yeast is a fungus. Yes that’s something you should know about. Why? Well, because knowledge is part of finding a solution to your problems. The truth is, vaginal infections do vary. Despite some inherent similarities, there are different causes of the infection and each one may require specific kinds of treatment. If you don’t know which one is which, you might end up applying a different treatment which may cause more hard that good I bet. Yeast infection symptoms don’t have much unique characteristics which would allow you to distinguish. Of course, we do encourage that you have your doctor examine your condition to get more accurate diagnosis and thus a more effective treatment. 

Yeast, or Candida as it is known scientifically, are present on any normal human skin. Also, moist areas like the mouth and more specifically you vagina, are common places where yeast can grow. Do not be alarmed. According to studies, a large number of women carry yeast in their vaginal area. In fact it is said that almost 50% of women have yeast. So, if it is normal why the infection? There are actually several reasons, one of which is when there is an excess presence of yeast in the area. Another one is when new yeast materials are placed into the same area. 

Some other reasons include taking oral contraceptives, diabetes mellitus, use of vaginal sprays like perfume and even hygiene sprays for women. 

There are several tell tale signs that you might have some infection in your sensitive parts. But like what have been mentioned earlier, the symptoms of vaginal yeast infection have a number of similarities with symptoms of other infections 

The first sign of possible yeast infection is experiencing itchiness in that region. There may be several other conditions where itchiness is the primary indication. That may be, but combining itchiness with the following other symptoms would help you narrow down your list of culprits and eventually identify the disorder as yeast infection. Other symptoms include burning, and soreness. A good indication also would be if pain is being experienced during intercourse. 

Sometimes, pain is also felt during urination. You might want to have yourself checked since pain should never be ignored. If you feel pain, and this applies to all parts of your body, consult your doctor quickly. The matter might be worse than you earlier thought it was. 


Also, the presence of vaginal discharge may be a good indication as well. Take note, however, that vaginal discharge is not always observed in women with yeast infections. Nevertheless, it is something that you should take note of. The discharge is often odorless and has a whitish color. The appearance and texture is similar to, pardon the comparison, to cottage cheese. Vulvodynia is the term used to describe the pain experienced in the vulvar area. 

After knowing the symptoms and, of course, proper consultations from your doctor, hopefully your yeast infections might have been cured completely. There are times, however, when yeast infection occurs with the same women. An estimated size of 5% will experience problems of recurring yeast infections. The reasons why yeast infections recur may be due to more underlying medical conditions that you have. 

For the most part, it would be best to observe closely your health and the various yeast infection symptoms to get to know what steps you would need to undertake next. 
