Facing the Facts of Vaginal Yeast Infection

Vaginal yeast infection, also known as candidiasis, is a brought about by the abnormal increase in the number of species of Candida, of which Candida Albicans is the most common culprit. A type of fungus, Candida Albicans is normally present on the human skin and in various areas of the body where it is generally warm and moist.

Under a variety of conditions, a change in the environment where they live in causes them to increase in quantity beyond normal, causing the infection. Among the signs and symptoms of vaginal infection include: itching, burning and painful sensation in the vaginal area; redness and soreness in the affected region; a noticeable discharge. Encountering these may help you properly identify the signs and symptoms of vaginal yeast infection.

Itching, burning and painful sensation

For some women, the easiest way to identify if she is suffering from vaginal yeast infection is that she itches severely in and around the vaginal area. The itching may not be present at all times. But when it does, it itches so badly a lot she finds it difficult to perform normal daily activities, such as to ambulate.

Urination may also go together with a burning sensation, or be generally painful for her to do so. But this bothersome urination may also be present with other forms of infections, such as urinary tract infection (UTI). One good way to tell apart the burning sensation that is caused by a yeast infection from that which is caused by a urinary tract infection is to notice when exactly the sensation is experienced. The urine is acidic in nature. So if the burning sensation is felt when the urine reaches outside, then it is most likely brought about by a yeast infection. Urinary tract infection, on the other hand, causes a burning sensation as the urine passes through the urinary tract on its way out.

Redness and soreness in the affected region

A slight to severe redness localized in the vaginal and vulvar areas is another sign of yeast infection. Soreness and irritation of the said areas may also be presenting symptoms, which make sexual intercourse an extremely painful experience for the woman.

Unusual seepage down there

Most women associate a thick discharge that somewhat resembles cottage cheese with vaginal yeast infection. Its consistency may typically range from thick and not clumpy at all, faint yellow to white, and to thin and clear. The discharge may or may not have a starchy odor to it, something that resembles the smell of bread or beer. Yeast, by the way, is used in making bread as a leavening agent, and in the fermentation of beer.

Since not everyone who has vaginal yeast infection gets a discharge, still the best and easiest way for a woman to tell whether or not she is experiencing yeast infection symptoms is that she itches in and around the vaginal area.

Yeast infection in other body parts
 
As mentioned earlier, Candida is normally present in the skin and in most areas of the body that are warm and moist. This means that signs and symptoms of candidiasis may also appear in different areas of the body in many different ways.

Yeast infection may occur in the mouth, in diaper areas and skin folds. And in people with weakened immune system, such as those with AIDS, yeast infection may also affect the gastrointestinal tract, such as the esophagus and the stomach.
