Finding Yeast Infection Treatments 

Yeast infection can strike at anyone at any age.   It’s a disease triggered by a fungus called Candida Albicans that causes the body to produce abnormal amounts of yeast.  Although yeast is found everywhere in the body, too much of it can be dangerous.  The most common types of yeast infection are vaginal yeast infection, thrush, diaper rash and nail bed infection.  Yeast infection is a highly treatable disease that virtually goes away without any complications.  There are a lot of available yeast infection treatments for each type of infection and here are some of them.

Treating Vaginal Yeast Infections

Vaginal yeast infection is easily treated with over the counter antifungal creams like Miconazole, Tioconazole, Butoconazole, or Clotrimazole which should be applied to the infected area for one to seven days.  Using birth control methods like a condom or a diaphragm is not advisable during this period.  For pregnant women it’s best to consult a physician for a remedy. 

To prevent vaginal yeast infection from occurring, avoid using douches, feminine sprays, scented toilet paper and deodorant tampons.  It is also best to wear cotton underwear and avoid wearing tight pants or panty hoses.  When wearing a wet suit or a bathing suit, it is recommended to change out of it right away.  

Treating Thrush

The yeast infection of the mouth called thrush can be treated with medicated mouthwashes or lozenges that dissolve in the mouth.  A recommended mouthwash to use should contain nystatin that can kill the yeast fungus.

The best prevention for thrush is maintaining good oral hygiene by brushing the teeth at least twice a day, flossing at least once a day and using a mouthwash.  For those using dentures, clean them thoroughly before using it.  For breastfeeding mothers, it’s best to have a breast check up for yeast infections.  

Treating Diaper Rashes

Diaper rashes caused by yeast infection can be treated with over the counter antifungal creams that contain nystatin or through supplements like acidophilus.

Protecting infants or adults from diaper rashes means keeping the covered area clean at all times.  It also helps to allow the skin to breathe by not using a diaper at least an hour a day.  It’s also recommended to use cotton diapers more often than the disposable ones since cotton allows the skin to breathe more easily.



Treating Nail Bed Infections

Yeast infections of the nail bed are more difficult to treat.  A prescription for an antifungal pill is needed but it can also be treated with antifungal laquer which is only proven to work in mild to moderate infections when the nails have not yet been infected by the fungus.

To prevent this infection from occurring and recurring is to regularly keep the skin dry and clean.  It is also advised to avoid contact with anyone who is infected with this disease. Wearing gloves when gardening also lowers the chance of nail bed yeast infection from occurring.  Another way to go about this is to avoid sharing personal items such as nail clippers or socks.

Yeast infections and its different types are highly treatable and preventable diseases which should last an average of one to two weeks and any time exceeding this means a trip to the doctor.  Information on yeast infection treatments and preventions are available through online medical journals and medical sites but for highly advanced states of yeast infection it’s always best to consult a physician.
