Look Out! Ten Signs You Might Have Yeast Infection

A yeast infection, also called candidiasis in scientific circles, is best known for causing a white or whitish discharge as well as putting great discomfort on sufferers. If left undiagnosed, this may bring in serious diseases which not only heighten the weakness of a person's immune system, but may even be life-threatening in the long run. Keep on the lookout for these ten signs you might have yeast infection.

First, there are five general symptoms which will almost always come together no matter which kind of candidiasis a person may be afflicted with. 

1. The affected body part itches severely. Yeast infections will actually prefer to grown in locations where scratching would be next to impossible, such as the mouth or the vagina. Human skin affected by yeast infection will have red rashes, which may be more pronounced in skin patches with hair growing on them. 

2. On one hand, the body part feels like it burns, or is sore to the touch. This may not necessarily cause blisters or include itchiness. On the other hand, the body part can feel tingly or numb. This lack of sensation does not mean that the part is safe from yeast infection.

3. Sensitivity to certain chemicals is heightened. Triggers include antibiotic formulas, sugar, refined carbohydrates (also known as most processed food), and of course, yeast.

4. Mental and physical coordination are also affected. Sufferers cannot balance themselves or move the way they want. They cannot focus on tasks, and become lazy through no fault of their own. Mood swings and heightened negative emotions are other indicators.

5. For genitalia and the digestive system, there is a white or whitish mucous discharge. In the mouth, there are white or whitish patches. Both the discharge and the patches have the consistency and smell of bread or a light cheese, though the smell can also be associated with beer. 

There are also symptoms specific to the body parts affected by candidiasis, five of which are discussed below: 

1. In gastrointestinal candidiasis, the digestive system is upset. The stomach in particular either bloats with constipation, or it acts up due to diarrhea or abdominal cramps (or, at times, both). Bowel movement is not spared either, because yeast infection causes the irritable bowel syndrome.

2. Women are the primary victims of genitourinary candidiasis. But men are also susceptible, and not just through sexual intercourse. Speaking of which, intercourse is painful and urination becomes more urgent for sufferers of yeast infection. Ladies may have unusual menstrual cramps while gentlemen may have prostatitis. 

3. Oral candidiasis causes dryness inside the mouth. The tongue cracks while the gums bleed. Fissures appear at the corners of the mouth. Swallowing becomes difficult.

4. In respiratory candidiasis, persistent coughing, wheezing, or shortness of breath can manifest. Another indicator is when the chest constantly tightens or is in pain. 

5. Candidiasis causes chronic inflammation and irritation of the eye and the conjunctivae (the mucous that covers the white area of the eye). The retina (the nerve-ended part which captures images for the brain) may defend itself against yeast infection by collecting pus inside an inflamed tissue pocket. This may permanently damage the sufferer’s eyesight.

One last note of caution: despite the fact that you can name ten signs you might have yeast infection, you may actually suffer no symptoms at all. Or you may bear symptoms similar to those of other sicknesses. If you feel like something is wrong but cannot put a finger on it, be sure to consult a doctor. 
