Pinpointing Vaginal Yeast Infection Symptoms

Vaginal yeast infection is also referred to as candidiasis. It is a fungal infection brought about by a number of species of Candida, of which Candida Albicans is the most common type. This fungus is usually present on normal human skin and in areas that are generally warm and moist. Under certain conditions, a change in their environment causes them to increase in quantity beyond normal, causing infection. There are, however, ways which may help you properly identify vaginal yeast infection symptoms.

Not so normal sensations

The easiest way for a woman to make out if she has yeast infection is that she itches severely in and around her vaginal area. The itching may not be present at all times. But when it does, it itches a lot so badly she finds it difficult to walk. It may also be accompanied by a burning sensation or be generally painful for her to urinate.

Separating the issues

One good way to make a distinction of the burning sensation that is due to a yeast infection and a urinary tract infection is to take notice when exactly the burning occurs. If the burning sensation is felt when the urine reaches outside, then she is most likely having yeast infection.  This is due to the acidic, coming into contact with the irritated of the vulva. Urinary tract infection, on the other hand, causes a burning sensation as the urine passes through the urinary tract on its way out.

A contained redness

Another yeast infection sign is the slight redness localized in the vaginal and vulvar areas. Soreness and irritation of the said areas are also present, which makes it for the woman to experience pain and discomfort during sexual intercourse.

As mentioned earlier, Candida is normally present in the skin and in most areas of the body that are warm and moist. This means that signs and symptoms of candidiasis may also appear in different areas of the body in many different ways.

A nasty clump of white stuff

Most women bracket together a thick discharge that looks like cottage cheese with vaginal yeast infection. However, not everyone gets a discharge. In fact, only about 20% of infected women experience it. The discharge may have a starchy odor to it – something that resembles the smell of bread or beer – or sometimes none at all. Its consistency may typically range from thick and not clumpy at all, faint yellow to white, and to thin and clear.

Since not everyone who has vaginal yeast infection gets a discharge, still the best and easiest way for a woman to tell whether or not she is experiencing yeast infection symptoms is that she itches in and around the vaginal area.

Aside from the vaginal infection

Oral candidiasis, or oral thrush, is characterized by white, lacy patches that can form on the palate, tongue, or elsewhere in the oral cavity. These patches sometimes appear resembling curdled milk. Candidiasis may also appear as red flat rashes with scalloped edges in diaper areas and skin folds. Satellite lesions – smaller patches of rashes nearby – usually are also present, which may cause itching and pain in the area. Male yeast infection, although less common, include symptoms such as red patch sores of the glans penis and the foreskin.

There will be some differences to its vaginal yeast infection symptoms counterpart, but for the most part they are similar. In people with weakened immune system, candidal infection may also affect the esophagus and the stomach.
