Some home remedies for yeast infection

You will never know what can be very useful in your kitchen. Just a little flick of your hand, your basic ingredients and seasonings may become an effective medical kit which can remedy injuries like simple cuts and get rid of infections like yeast infections. The microorganisms Candida albicans, causes yeast infections. But don’t be surprised to know that home remedies for yeast infection can be very effective in getting rid of theose microorganisms. 

Candida is a kind of microorganism that is always present in our body. When its environment, including our body, changes the growth of the fungi suddenly increases which causes the infections. This change in the environment may vary from acid and alkaline imbalance to poor nutrition. Some triggers also include an increase intake of sugar, changes in the body’s hormones, antibiotics, and even birth control pills. Any one of these or combination of these factors can trigger the proliferation of the fungi resulting to infections bringing with it the problems of itching, burning, irritation, and the presence of white or yellowish discharge. 

Although a number of products are commercially available to help soothe the discomfort brought by yeast infection, you might find these products a little expensive or buying them would be quite inconvenient or you need the remedy this instant. Also, there might be a chance that the fungi develop a resistance to commercially available medicines. 

Some of the remedies that have been recommended include the use of borax especially if the yeast infection causes discharge that looks like egg white; calcarea carbonica to help with the itching and burning sensations felt before and after menstruation; kali bichromicum to remedy a very uncomfortable discharge with itching and burning; natrum muriaticum; pulsatilla; sepia; and sulphur. 

You can fight microorganisms with other microorganisms. We’re talking about the use of probiotics which are friendly microbial organisms that occur naturally in the digestive tract and vagina. The growth of probiotic microorganism suppresses the growth of the Candida which cases the infections. It’s a battle of microorganisms. 

There’s a big chance that these remedies are not readily available in your homes. There are natural and more home made remedies that are available to you. 

Garlic has been found to be effective by some people when it comes to treating yeast infections. What you can do is get a couple of garlic cloves and smash and convert it into paste. You then apply that garlic paste around the vagina area. The antibacterial properties of garlic can help in getting rid of those pesky fungi. The only setback would be the smell. 

A not so smelly alternative would be the use of honey. However, the smell may not be as strong as garlic but the stickiness of honey would be quite uncomfortable. Nevertheless, according to testimonials applying honey on the affected regions helps alleviate the various symptoms of the infection. You apply honey and leave it for about 30 minutes before rinsing with warm water. 

Another good antibacterial and antifungal remedy would be vinegar. Vinegar mixed in warm water is said to be quite effective. You need to soak the area for at least 20 minutes though to see and feel some effects. Cider vinegar is said to be more effective. 

These are but a few of the home remedies for yeast infection. There might be a couple of others that you might heard of but before you decide to use them, it would be best to ask around or read more about them to make sure that you won’t be doing more harm than good. 
