Yeast infection, reasons why it attacks mostly women

A severely uncomfortable situation where it itch very bad, irritation is apparent, and redness in the area is highly noticeable. These are just a few of the possible symptoms associated with yeast infection. The unbearable itching caused by yeast infections is one of the reasons why people try are all over the place in finding a quick, inexpensive solution. From home made remedies to commercially available medicines, people will try almost anything. But what are the reasons why yeast infection attacks mostly women? Let’s get the answer for that question a little later. First things first. 

Candida albicans, that’s the culprit. This microorganism is always present in damp areas in our body. Initially, when everything’s normal, Candida does not do anything to us. The normal balance between good and bad bacteria is usually maintained by our body. However, triggered by outside stimulus, this balance is destroyed leaving the organism Candida free to grow and populate. This overgrowth of microorganisms results to irritation and redness. Itchiness will of course be among the symptoms of the infection. 

Why is it more common to women? Even though men have the potential of becoming infected as well, there are several factors in women which increase the risks of being infected. According to some studies, it is estimated that 25% to 50% of women have in their bodies the microorganisms that caused the infection. However, due to the presence of other bacteria, the amount of Candida in specific areas remains tolerable to the body. It is when this balance of microorganisms becomes disrupted that causes the excessive growth of the Candida which is followed by an infection of the affected area. 

As the population of Candida grows, so do the infected areas.  Stopping the various symptoms associated with yeast infection means addressing the various symptoms, factors, and situations one by one. The cause of the excessive growth of the yeast in that area can be associated with drinking antibiotics. Antibiotics disrupt the presence of other microorganisms that control the population of Candida. This is why yogurt is a recommended application for people with yeast infections. The microorganisms present in yogurt help restore the balance between microorganisms. 

Women also have a greater risk of being diagnosed of having yeast infection is due to the estrogen level in women. This is the reason why women who take estrogen-containing birth control pills and those who are pregnant. Women at this stage or those who share the same objectives have very erratic hormonal balance which affects the population of Candida.

Other possible causes of yeast infections include detergents, fabric softeners, feminine and hygiene sprays, and forms of contraceptives like foams or jellies. Getting older might also trigger the growth of the bacteria especially if you are already undergoing menopause. In menopause, the estrogen levels drop which results to the thinning of the vaginal wall making it more susceptible to different kinds of organisms which could lead to various infections, including but not limited to yeast. 

Stress is also considered one of the factors that can worsen the situation. An increase in vaginal itching might result to a decrease in the membrane of the outer wall in the vagina which will eventually increase vaginal itching. 

Yeast infection attacks mostly women due to the already mentioned conditions. Knowing these conditions and situations may be a good thing to help prevent the infection to develop or spread. 
