Camping Locations:  Your Options

Are you interested in going camping in the near future?  Camping is a fun and exciting recreational activity. What is nice about camping is that you have a number of different options, in terms of locations.  A few of the many locations that you may want to examine for your next camping adventure are outlined below for your convenience.

State parks are one of the best locations to go camping.  They are often run and monitored by state governments, in terms of security and maintence.  Although you have to pay to enter a state park, even if you do not plan on camping, the admission price is more than worth it.  Often times, with state parks, you will find that camping is just one of the many things that you can do while visiting one.  Many state parks have a number of hiking trails, as well as lakes, ponds, or streams, where you can usually swim or wade.  Many state parks also have gift shops. This means that you may be able to buy a souvenir of your camping adventure.

In addition to state parks, you can also go camping at parks that are commonly referred to as campground parks. In the United States, these types of parks are often the ones that are first associated with camping. Campground parks are areas that are designed especially for campers.  They often have a large number of campground sites. Campground parks are often filled with activities; activities that usually include hiking, swimming, boating, fishing, and much more.  Many campground parks also have game rooms, first aid offices, security posts, as well as onsite laundry rooms.

When many individuals think of camping, the woods are often the first thing that comes to mind. While many campground parks and state parks are located in wooded areas, you can also go camping along the beach. When thinking of the beach and camping, it is important to focus on more than the coastline.  Many individuals and companies have made beachfront areas out of ponds, lakes, rivers, and small streams.  The majority of the time, these beachfront camping sites are privately owned and operated, but you should be able to make a reservation and pay a fee to camp there.

Another one of the many locations that you can camp at is your own backyard.  Unfortunately, many people do not associate camping with their backyards.  If you are an experienced camper, you may prefer camping in a state park, along the beach, or in a public campground.  At the same time, it is always nice to have the option to camp in your backyard whenever you want.  It is also important to mention that backyard camping is ideal if you are camping for the first time or if you are camping with small children, namely children who are unfamiliar with camping and all that comes along with it.

The above mentioned locations are just a few of the many locations that you may want to keep in mind, when planning your next camping adventure. To decide where you should camp, you may want to examine the distance from your intended destination to your home, the cost of making a reservation, and onsite or nearby activities.  Keeping these factors in mind will help to ensure that you choose the best location for your next camping adventure, no matter how long or short you plan on it being.

PPPPP

Word Count 569
