Picnics: Cold Sandwiches or Barbeque Meats:  Which is Best?

Are you interested in hosting a picnic in the near future?  Whether you are looking to host a large picnic, which may also be referred to as a picnic party, or if you are looking to host a picnic just for your immediate family, you may be wondering which type of foods you should serve. As you likely already know, cold sandwich meats and barbequed meats are two types of picnic foods that come highly rated and recommended, but which should you serve?

At first glance, the decision to serve cold sandwiches or barbeque meats at your next picnic may not seem like a big decision, but it can be.  What you need to remember is that most picnics are focused on food. For that reason, if you want your next picnic to be a success, it is important to make sure that the foods that you serve, as well as the other snacks and drinks, are ones that are the perfect match for you and your picnic guests, no matter who those guests may be.

If you have having a difficult time determining whether you should serve cold sandwiches or barbeque meats at your next picnic, you may want to examine the advantages and disadvantages of doing each.  For starters, we will focus on cold sandwich meats. What is nice about serving cold sandwiches is that they are relatively easy to make, as well as affordable. You also have a number of different options. For instance, you can prepare your sandwiches beforehand or you can give your guests the opportunity to create their own sandwiches at your picnic.

As for the disadvantages to serving cold meat sandwiches at your next picnic, one is the creation.  Should you decide to pre-make all of your sandwiches, you may find that not all of your guests like the sandwiches that you make. This is particularly common if you are hosting a picnic party.  Unfortunately, many individuals are known as being picky eaters. With that in mind, if you allow your picnic guests to create their own sandwiches, you may have a large mess on your hands, as you often have number of utensils, condiments, and so forth left out.

As previously stated, a common alternative to cold meat sandwiches is that of barbeque meat. What is nice about serving barbeque meat at your next picnic is that it is something that most individuals love. For many, outdoor cooking is automatically associated with barbeques.  You will also find that you have a number of meats to choose from, such as hamburgers, hotdogs, sausages, steak, and chicken.

Although there are a number of advantages to serving barbeque meat at your next picnic, you will also find that there are a number of disadvantages to doing so as well. One of those disadvantages is the cooking time. When barbequing your meat outdoors, you may find that it takes a considerable amount of time for all of the food to cook. With that in mind, this may be the perfect time to enjoy some fun outdoor picnic games, such as badminton or volleyball.  Due to the cost of many meats, you may want to think about purchasing your food when it is on sale.

The above mentioned advantages and disadvantages are just a few of the many to having barbeque meats and sandwich meats at your next picnic. Should you still be unsure as to which would better suit your next picnic, you may want to consider serving both.

PPPPP

Word Count 583
